{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 [[202001132002 Tom Jones article]] #tom-jones #bridget-allworthy\
# \'93to acknowledge the Truth, she was always ready to oblige her Brother\'94 (I.iv)\
- Fielding gives us this explanation for why Bridget has taken \'93the good natured Side of the Question\'94 regarding her brother\'92s adoption of Jones, but it *is not why* -- it is not the truth!\
    - moreover, it convinces us that she in fact *doesn't* really want him to adopt Tom, when actually it was her *goal* for him to do so\
- Because we get the "joke" about her muttering, we accept that we "got" the passage and move on, not scrutinizing her (and missing that it's her child)\
- This is the first time the narrator uses the "to say the truth" structure\
\
> Perhaps the Reader may account for this Behaviour from her Condescension to Mr. *Allworthy*, when we have informed him, that the good Man had ended his Narrative with owning a Resolution to take care of the Child, and to breed him up as his own; for, to acknowledge the Truth, she was always ready to oblige her Brother, and very seldom, if ever, contradicted his Sentiments; she would indeed sometimes make a few Observations, as, that Men were headstrong and must have their own Way, and would wish she had been blest with an independent Fortune; but these were always vented in a low Voice, and at the most amounted only to what is called Muttering. (I.iv)\
\
At first glance, it seems plausible that Bridget might be quietly bowing to her brother\'92s wishes. As the sentence continues after the semicolon, however, it introduces a humorous understatement that, in its specificity regarding her \'93few\'94 observations, reverses our interpretation; we now imagine her performing an ostentatious, insincere \'93condescension,\'94 and understand the \'93truth\'94 as referring only to the literal content of her statements. Importantly, however, as Sheridan Baker\'92s astute re-reading of Bridget illuminates, to paint Bridget as a shrill old maid who nags her brother while pretending to oblige him is not \'93to acknowledge the truth\'94 at all: the narrator induces the reader to account for her behaviour in relation to Mr. Allworthy\'92s resolution, but the mention of Mr. Allworthy is an intentional misdirection. The details of her muttering may be a truth, but in terms of our goal to understand her unexpected behaviour, it is not the truth. This is the narrator\'92s first use of of the rhetoric of self-conscious truth-telling, and it serves to actively mislead us.\
\
Instead of improving our judgment, the narrator\'92s rhetorical techniques work to make our second look nearly as uninformative as the first. As Power says, despite the linguistic effusions giving the impression of an author \'93who finds it hard not to offer the benefit of his Inspiration,\'94 \'93[t]o anyone reading the work for a second time, it will be apparent that Fielding has done an excellent job of containing himself\'94 (762). Returning to that first invocation of \'93acknowledge[ing] the truth,\'94 for example, when Bridget is unexpectedly gentle toward the infant foundling: the interpreted truth of her \'93muttering\'94 gives us something to \'91get\'92 and enjoy so that we feel we have extracted the paragraph\'92s comic pleasure, and are \'91done\'92 with it. This is the \'93submission to readerly \'91Interest\'92\'94 that Sharon Sherman argues drives his \'93management of text to everyone's material advantage\'94 (375): the obfuscations exist not to provide clues, but to prevent the paragraph from being suspiciously absent of literary pleasure.}