{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red26\green26\blue26;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c13333\c13333\c13333;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl220\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 The findings are the real strength of this paper; they are very suggestive indeed. I am not going to say too much about them beyond the fact that grounding some of the results in literary interpretation \'96 or at least, nodding towards evidence from the plays themselves and other literary scholarship that supports these claims \'96 would be very excellent. The clear division this essay is able to show between genre using a network visualization is genuinely fascinating. 
\b Having a distinct model that shows coherence in the FF tragedies (much harder to define traditionally than comedies!) is truly impressive, and this division should be the focus of the discussion section
\b0 .\
\
Are they really larger? Is it through circumference of the graphs? Eigenvector distance between all participants? Something else? Though the idea of moving through tiers of character-\
importance (\'91very minor/unnamed\'92, \'91minor, named but say four lines\'92, \'91middling\'92, \'91secondary\'92, \'91primary\'92) is fascinating \'96 especially in light of what the comedies just showed us.\
I would love to know how directionality is measured/illustrated in these graphs, such as in 2H4\
(not a tragedy, though so unclear why it is here). Back to methods for a second: you should\
provide an indicative and representative graph in that section to illustrate how you intend to\
show each feature that is relevant long before you get to the \'91findings\'92 section. (written discourse\
is very different than spoken discourse for paper-writing!)\
\
\'91unpredictable\'92 (line 24): what does this mean? Is this the right word? (related: is tragedy well-\
defined in the literature of FF genre? Would be wonderful to observe that be corroborated (or\
\
not) in this realm.\
Seems a bit obvious that A&C would look more like a history play;how does Julius Caesar stack\
up? Both could be argued to be a form of \'91histories\'92}