{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 The potential utility of graph density in distinguishing genres is visually obvious when individual comedy and history networks are compared. Histories feature highly dispersed networks, with large numbers of very minor characters, such as \'93First,\'94 \'93Second,\'94 and \'93Third\'94 members of groups like soldiers and ambassadors, who each interject briefly in a single scene. Connections form chains of acquaintance with little overlap, so even the monarchs have low eigenvector centrality.\
Figure:
\b  
\i\b0 2Henry6;
\i0\b  
\i\b0 Henry5
\i0 \
\
Comedies, in contrast, feature networks with far fewer characters, in which nearly everybody speaks to nearly everybody else at some point. Although comedies often have multiple subplots, these separate stories do not result in highly-separated networks. We theorize that comedic networks are strongly shaped by the plays\'92 final \'93resolution\'94 scenes, which bring together the full cast. The average eigenvector centrality of the characters in comedies is much higher than in tragedies or histories; this suggests that many more of the characters in a comedy are \'93important,\'94 reflecting a focus on ensemble stories.\
Figure: 
\i ComedyErrors; Midsummer\

\i0  \
Graph density is insufficient, however, to fully distinguish the tragedies, which feature networks somewhere between history and comedy in their density. They often have a dense core with a secondary ring of more peripheral characters. What seems to distinguish them is the existence of the central tragic hero, whose influence directly touches more of the network than the protagonists of histories, but whose connections are less interconnected than the ensembles of comedies. These subtleties are better captured, it seems, by the combined metric of \'93edges, degree, and words.\'94\
Figure: 
\i Othello
\i0\b ; 
\i\b0 Lear
\i0\b ; 
\i\b0 MacBeth;
\i0\b  
\i\b0 Hamlet}