{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 # Empiricism and Henry Fielding\'92s Theory of Fiction Roger Maioli\
Eighteenth-Century Fiction, Volume 27, Number 2, Winter 2014-15, pp. 201-228\
#tom-jones #bibliography\
\
## Argument\
Maioli is mostly interested in the theory of fiction that Fielding defines across his works. Addresses a problem that isn't ap roblem for me, namely, how to justify the pedagogic value of his novels despite the fact that people no longer really believe that reason alone (rather than personal experience) can devise truth. Maioli's take on this is a bit circular and unresolved; what is relevant to me is the idea that Fielding tried to present novels that are _verifiable_ by his readers, as the necessary precondition for readers to learn from them.\
\
## Supports\
Prose fiction can't be evaluated as true/untrue but it can be evaluated as possible/impossible and probable/improbable -- putting it on the same grounds as history.\
\
Other, more realist writers responded by insisting that their works were truthful. But this is ineffective, because even if what they write is true, it will only be accepted by readers if this truth is subjectively accepted by them as _probable_.\
\
In fiction impossible things (like a deus ex machina) can still be accepted as probable by readers if they conform to generic expectations, though Fielding rejects this and confines himself to what is both probable _and_ possible.\
\
Subjective judgments are conditioned by prior experience, which make some subjects better judges than others........ I don't think this argument really hangs together?\
\
## Quotes\
\
"the concept of probability in Tom Jones can be understood as Fielding\'92s attempt to demonstrate the continuity between the world of his novels and that of sense experience, and thus show that even highly explicit fictions can pass the empirical test. (Maioli 205)\
\
"Misrepresentations of life, for Fielding, are thus the product of authorial ineptitude rather than a necessary feature of literary mimesis. What is in order is some means of verifying the cor- respondence between the world of a novel and the real world." (Maioli 217)\
\
"Fielding continues his inquiry into the connections between appearances and reality. Physiognomy remains an important clue to character, as in Fielding\'92s overwrought descriptions of Mrs Towwouse in Joseph Andrews15 and Captain Blifil in Tom Jones (65\'96 66), and in his recommendations that the reader examine specific figures in William Hogarth\'92s paintings to get a sense of what Square or Bridget Allworthy look like (Tom Jones, 138; 66). As in the Essay, however, facial features are easy to misread: young Blifil has \'93one of those grinning Sneers with which the Devil marks his best Beloved\'94 (Tom Jones, 878), but no one notices; while Parson Adams, one of the best of men, is said to have \'93the most villainous Countenance\'94 (Joseph Andrews, 142). Still, like the Essay, the novels emphasize the disjunction between professions and behaviour as clues to character. (207)}