{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red252\green121\blue193;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c100000\c57288\c79972;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 For the most part, however, Frank\'92s bibliography resists division into a gendered binary. As Figure <$n#figs:popularFranks> shows, the two most prevalent tags in the corpus as a whole are \'93Gothic\'94 (83% of all works) and \'93pure/high\'94 (39%), both of which have the same gendered distribution as the sample as a whole. Our only hint of a gendered trend among the most widespread tags is the third most prevalent tag, \'93terror\'94 (34% of works), which, at 50% female, is somewhat above the female baseline of 43%. Mathematically, of course, the norm is always going to be dominated by that which both sexes can participate in. Since this sample includes many unsigned {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://CD44B9FD-5D36-4A53-BF7B-0601597AA103"}}{\fldrslt works}}, the maximum prevalence an exclusively-female trait can have is 43%. To account for the different prevalence of each category within the original sample, it is helpful to calculate the odds ratio.\
The odds ratio, briefly, is a statistic which quantifies the strength of the association between two factors; that is, whether the presence of one factor indicates an increased likelihood of {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://D6665CCA-591E-4123-BAB9-D8619A35D5D1"}}{\fldrslt another.}} In the case of \'93terror,\'94 if 50% of \'93terror\'94 works have female authors, a book classified by Frank as a \'93terror\'94 Gothic is 1.19 times more likely to be by a woman. The odds ratio is most useful for application to unsigned works: once we have determined the gendered associations among the books whose authorship is known, can we use Frank\'92s genre classifications to predict the authorship of unsigned works? For tags with low odds ratios, the answer will be \'91no\'92: there is no statistically significant predictive power in a work being 1.19 times as likely to have female authorship. The low odds ratios\'97 which is to say, the weak predictive power\'97 of the tags examined here is partly due to the fact that I exclude from examination the most unusual tags. Several exciting and extreme odds ratios appear among the least-common tags, for the same reason that those tags have been excluded: because very small sample are prone to \'93noise\'94 which renders them unreliable as meaningful indicators.\cb2  [EXPLAIN HOW I CALCULATED SIGNIFICANCE: have to be at least 13 total works with an assigned gender for the results to be more than just {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://8275DB64-B096-4BA0-9179-3106B697694B"}}{\fldrslt \cb2 noise.}}] \cb1 Applying this standard reduced my sample from 190 tags to only 22.\cb2  [COMMENT ON THAT]}