{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf760
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c99997\c99999;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Although the dissertation itself will focus narrowly on texts published 1789-99, this reading list seeks to contextualize those works within the fifty-year period 1770-1820. Attention is paid to Romanticism, the Gothic, and sentimental fiction as interrelated literary movements. Major Romantic, Gothic, and sentimental works are selected for their longstanding influence and prevalence in critical conversations. These landmark texts provide the canonical touchstones of the period. To support inquiry into popular literature of the period, the list also includes chapbooks, both Gothic and religious, some didactic literature, and several dramas. Selections of prose non-fiction from the period provide contemporaneous thinking on generic form and the purposes of literature.  The key authors highlighted in the thesis-specific readings are Ann Radcliffe, Charlotte Smith, Mary Robinson, and Hannah More. Some comparatively minor works by these four authors are included in order to represent each author\'92s writing in multiple genres. Secondary criticism sheds light either on the historical period or on the intended computational methodology. Works concerned with the eighteenth century contextualize popular reading practices and relationships between literary modes. The \'91digital humanities\'92 secondary works emphasize theory over technique. A few titles provide an overview of the great variety of methods and debates currently prevalent in the field, while the majority \'97 including some non-computational works \'97 engage with ideas of \'91distant\'92 and \'91surface\'92 reading. Overall, the list balances the key texts of late eighteenth century literature with an interest in \'91the great unread.\'92}