{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf820
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c99997\c99999;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Algee-Hewitt, Mark. \'93Acts of Aesthetics: Publishing as Recursive Agency in the Long Eighteenth Century.\'94 Romanticism and Victorianism on the Net, no. 57 no. 57 (May 2, 2017): 1\'9622. doi:10.7202/1006517ar.\
\
\
p.1: . Contemporary theories of Enlightenment and post-Enlightenment thought most often focus on the philosophic or cultural goals of aesthetics, while media-oriented studies use the rapid increase and increasing availability of print to read coextensive changes into eighteenth-century economic, political and social practice. -- Highlighted May 2, 2017\
\
p.3: The synthesis that unites the texts which criticize print in the eighteenth century is their dependence upon the very medium they seek to limit -- Highlighted May 2, 2017\
\
p.3:  we can identify a subject/object unity in the negative responses to printing technology that calls into question the use of the very medium under critique to stage the critique. How did Enlightenment authors understand this vicious cycle of printed critiques of print to aid in solving the problem of the overload of print? -- Highlighted May 2, 2017\
\
p.3: If aesthetics and theories of taste are an attempt to organize, categorize and limit the range of responses to art, then their focus on writing suggests the possibility of an underlying cognizance of the crisis of print. This follows from the expansion of the technology itself: the need for a theory of taste to control the range of responses to aesthetic objects is a response to the crisis occasioned by the exponentially increasing availability of just these objects -- Highlighted May 2, 2017\
\
p.3: Again, we are left with the question: how does printing more works offer a solution to the problem of too many printed works? Read another way, what can print DO, what action can it take self-reflexively, such that it can form its own limitations through multiplication? -- Highlighted May 2, 2017\
\
p.3: the problem isn't too many printed works -- it's too many of the WRONG kinds of printed works, to which THEIR works are obviously an exception -- Written May 2, 2017\
\
p.3: Generated from the data contained within the Eighteenth Century Collections Online (or ECCO) database, this chart, Figure 1, which can be generated from any representative sample of printed work during this period, is likewise a familiar visual.  -- Highlighted May 2, 2017\
\
p.3: runs into the same situation as faced by the writers of the period themselves: there are simply too many works to adequately comprehend or represent through our traditional strategies of close reading -- Highlighted May 2, 2017\
\
p.3: If aesthetic theory did respond to the increase in printed materials during the eighteenth century, particularly in Britain, then we should witness a shift in writing whose existence can be traced back to the increase in print itself, separate from and in addition to any critical transformations offered by any individual author. -- Highlighted May 2, 2017\
\
p.3: THIS is an extremely compelling way to use these charts\'97 to identify which inflection points we already expect, and to hypothesize a new one -- Written May 2, 2017\
\
p.4: reconstructing the effects of the increase of print on aesthetic writing in a way that potentially navigates the two difficulties described above: the sheer volume of printed work and, more problematically, our implicit biases as literary scholars towards narrative histories of aesthetic theory and philosophy -- Highlighted May 2, 2017\
\
p.4: Rather than reading for the substance of each work, these methods can allow us to examine the linguistic traces that certain texts on aesthetics share: this, in turn, gives us access to the way in which these authors conceived of aesthetics, rather than their specific aesthetic theories themselves. -- Highlighted May 2, 2017\
\
p.5: While this sample only represents a small subset of the large number of works written onaesthetics available in digital formats, the exploratory nature of this pilot study assumes that the need for clarity surpasses the potential for comprehension. -- Highlighted May 2, 2017\
\
p.5: In order to ensure that the sample was comprised of works on aesthetic theory that were representative of the period and yet still evidenced some cognizance of print culture, I used a set of hierarchically weighted terms to identify key texts.  -- Highlighted May 2, 2017\
\
p.5: why just use R's standard chart? this is not a very nuanced way to present this information.. in fact, without the book names, it feels practically meaningless -- Written May 2, 2017\
\
p.5:  The closer the relationship between two texts, the lower on the y axis the two texts are connected. The higher the connection, therefore, the less the lexical elements of the text overlap in their arrangement.  -- Highlighted May 2, 2017\
\
p.5: The remaining texts fall into two clear groups. While there is no obvious thematic or generic regularity that would indicate the principle ofselection, the metadata on these samples reveals an interesting pattern -- Highlighted May 2, 2017\
\
p.6: the -- Highlighted May 2, 2017\
\
p.6: erage date of composition of the first is 1757 and the second is 1775. These results suggest that the language of aesthetic compositionexperiences a substantive change within the eighteenth century and, moreover, give us a chronological outline through which we can begin to -- Highlighted May 2, 2017\
\
p.6: pinpoint these transformations -- Highlighted May 2, 2017\
\
p.6:  these chronological limits coincide with the beginnings of the radical increase in -- Highlighted May 2, 2017\
\
p.6: print during the 1760s and 1770s. -- Highlighted May 2, 2017\
\
p.6:  this transformation seems to indicate a change in the way aesthetic authors wrote about print in the later and post-Enlightenment -- Highlighted May 2, 2017\
\
p.6: If we were to retrace the historical contingency of this period of transformation, we can, of course, locate a key event in print history that falls within the limit of this transformation. In 1774, the case of Donaldson vs. Beckett, over the right of Scottish printers to print runs of James Thomson\'92s The Seasons, repealed the common practice of perpetual copyright and reinstated the 14 year limit on copyright -- Highlighted May 2, 2017\
\
p.6:  as the shift that St. Clair describes in the reading public of England involved the increased participation of the lower classes in the public sphere, the shift in theories of taste might indicate a reactionary response to the opening of the reading public to these new groups. -- Highlighted May 2, 2017\
\
p.6: The historically based clustering that we can interpret in this model could therefore be evidence of a classbased response to the change in print technology: this aligns the aesthetic theory under investigation here with Roy Porter\'92s hypothesis that taste \'93made the new social adhesive which would cement propertied \'e9lites together\'94 (Porter 195) -- Highlighted May 2, 2017\
\
p.6: The model, unfortunately, does not provide a one-to-one correlative field onto which we can read this transformation precisely: what it does do is allow us to reframe the question \'93how does aesthetic theory change in response to print technology?\'94, instead allowing us to ask: \'93how does the copyright window affect the language of aesthetics and what does this tell us about the ways in which aesthetics covertly responds to changes in print production?\'94 -- Highlighted May 2, 2017\
\
p.6: so he's done one rather small experiment, really, and turned a vague question into a more precise one / a hypothesis.. this is the standard for literary experimentation -- Written May 2, 2017\
\
p.7: We can also interrogate the model to potentially identify the nature of the shifts in language that took place in the later eighteenth century. -- Highlighted May 2, 2017\
\
p.7:  What linguistic elements, in other words, changed in the ways in which authors wrote about aesthetics during this period?  -- Highlighted May 2, 2017\
\
p.7: terms that are frequent in one set, but absent in another would be among the most informative identifiers of group selection -- Highlighted May 2, 2017\
\
p.7: By dividing the sample into the two groups indicated by the dendrogram and then individually identifying the 30 highest frequency terms in each sub-sample (Figure 4), we can locate potential signifiers that are responsible for the categorization we have witnessed. -- Highlighted May 2, 2017\
\
p.8:  In the first group, the unique words appear to be more descriptive in nature: words like \'93poetry,\'94 \'93composition\'94 and \'93art\'94 represent a range of subjects for the theory, while \'93Poet,\'94 \'93style,\'94 \'93genius\'94 and \'93imagination\'94 provide a descriptive terminology for the process of creation. No similar groups of objects or actors appears in the second: instead, the unique terms seem to focus less on the creation of the aesthetic object by an agent and instead, indicate an interest in the \'93effect\'94 of the aesthetic object on the \'93passions\'94 or the \'93human.\'94 -- Highlighted May 2, 2017\
\
p.9: I'm not sure that all this speculation is informative -- Written May 2, 2017\
\
p.9: Before using these results to aid in a critical reading of the texts themselves, it is worthwhile to test this assumption: if action does assume a new importance within the later Enlightenment and Romantic periods specifically in relation to the discipline of aesthetics and theories of taste, then the texts in our sample should show some variation based upon the their discussions of action within the context of our other key terms. -- Highlighted May 2, 2017\
\
p.9:  While texts from the first group (predominantly early eighteenthcentury texts) cluster tightly towards the left side of the graph, the texts from the second group vary greatly across the x axis. From this model, we can interpret two key conclusions. -- Highlighted May 2, 2017\
\
p.9: the use of \'93act\'94 or \'93action\'94 in relation to discussions of taste, writing and printing did change between the early and late eighteenth century -- Highlighted May 2, 2017\
\
p.9: the ways in which these terms were used varied greatly after this transformation, as evidenced by the radical change in cluster size -- Highlighted May 2, 2017\
\
p.10: this graph is HORRIBLE and not informative at all -- Written May 2, 2017\
\
p.10: what appears to change is the description of how art, and specifically printed writing, brings action into being. -- Highlighted May 2, 2017\
\
p.11: This clear chain of linkages provides a map through which, at least according to Campbell, the end result of art is action. Unlike Dennis\'92 cyclical progression, the structure of Campbell\'92s chain of affective response is linear: pointing away from the text into the world. -- Highlighted May 2, 2017\
\
p.11: Campbell\'92s method of \'93directing\'94 the proper set of responses to literary production is the work, or the action, of his text itself. Similarly, Reeves\'92 text, written in the genre of a dialogue, also functions as a system through which the production and dissemination of texts can be regulated. Both authors depend upon the very principles of action that they advocate in their own aesthetic theory to perform the work of this theory itself.  -- Highlighted May 2, 2017\
\
p.11: the active power of print is effective enough that the only methods through which it can be limited lie within the set of active functions that it makes possible -- Highlighted May 2, 2017\
\
p.11: allows us to re-imagine aesthetics as a set of controls: philosophic controls on the reception of art and its place in the organizational system of Enlightenment thought; social controls limiting behavior based upon a set of moral and intellectual criteria; and technological controls seeking to limit the actionable possibilities of print through a redirection of its agency back towards its own action in the world. -- Highlighted May 2, 2017\
\
p.11: Rather than a synthesis of action and thought between two areas of human endeavor, as Cassirer suggests, we can instead rethink aesthetics itself as a method of social action that uses the technology of print to create a unity in itself between thinking and doing -- Highlighted May 2, 2017\
\
p.13: The total sample of 28 texts included 1,547,762 words: while it is reasonable to surmise that a literary scholar could analyze this quantity of language, he or she could do so based only on comprehension of the subject or idiosyncrasies of individual texts, not on word usage or lexical patterns among groups of texts. The strength of the quantitative aspects to the model I propose here lies in its ability to identify patterns of word usage that are not apparent within the text. -- Highlighted May 2, 2017\
\
p.13: 28 is tiny!! -- Written May 2, 2017\
\
p.13: The specific search terms were: \'93publish,\'94 \'93print,\'94 \'93write,\'94 \'93author,\'94 \'93poet,\'94 \'93scribbl*,\'94 \'93press,\'94 \'93literature,\'94 \'93books,\'94 \'93read,\'94 \'93pen,\'94 and \'93taste.\'94 -- Highlighted May 2, 2017\
\
p.13: [8] Because many of the tokens appeared in just one or two texts, and were therefore not useful in clustering the sample as a whole, the total number of terms was reduced to the most significant with the removeSparseTerms function using a sparsity of 0.4. This removes all terms with a greater than 40% probability of having zero occurrences in any given document. -- Highlighted May 2, 2017\
\
p.13: hmm -- I've been trying to resist my impulses toward tidy clustering; sometimes text are outliers, and a long tail is to be expected.. not everything reduces down to a few categories -- Written May 2, 2017\
\
}