{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf100
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\fi-960\sl400

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Bode, Katherine. \'93The Equivalence of \'91Close\'92 and \'91Distant\'92 Reading; Or, Towards a New Object for Data-Rich Literary History.\'94 
\i Modern Language Quarterly
\i0  78.1 (December 2017): 77-106. Web.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Drucker, Johanna. 
\i Graphesis: Visual Forms of Knowledge Production
\i0 . Cambridge, Massachusetts: Harvard UP, 2014. Print. 
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Felski, Rita. 
\i The Limits of Critique
\i0 . Chicago: U Chicago, 2015. Print.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Fischer-Starcke, Bettina. 
\i Corpus Linguistics in Literary Analysis: Jane Austen and Her Contemporaries
\i0 . London: Continuum, 2010. Print. 
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Gamer, Michael. 
\i Romanticism and the Gothic: Genre, Reception, and Canon Formation
\i0 . Cambridge: Cambridge UP, 2000. Print. 
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Garside, Peter et al., eds. 
\i The English novel, 1770-1829: A Bibliographical Survey of Prose Fiction Published in the British Isles
\i0 . Oxford: Oxford UP, 2000. Print.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Jockers, Matthew. 
\i Macroanalysis: Digital Methods and Literary History
\i0 . \'a0Champaign, Illinois: U Illinois, 2013. Print.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Lennep, William Van, ed. 
\i The London Stage, 1660-1800: A Calendar of Plays, Entertainments & Afterpieces Together with Casts, Box-Receipts and Contemporary Comment
\i0 . 11 vols. Carbondale: Southern Illinois UP, 1960-65. Print.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Marcus, Sharon, Heather Love, and Stephen Best. \'93Building a Better Description.\'94 
\i Representations
\i0  135.1 (Summer 2016): 2-21. Web.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 McCarty, Willard. \'93Knowing: Modeling in Literary Studies.\'94 
\i A Companion to Digital Literary Studies
\i0 , ed. Susan Schreibman and Ray Siemens. Oxford: Blackwell, 2008. Web.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Moretti, Franco. 
\i Distant Reading
\i0 . London: Verso, 2013. Print. 
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Samuels, Lisa and Jerome McGann. \'93Deformance and Interpretation.\'94 
\i New Literary History
\i0  30.1 (Winter 1999): 25-56. JSTOR. Web. 24 Feb. 2014. 
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Sedgwick, Eve. \'93Paranoid Reading and Reparative Reading, or, You\'92re So Paranoid, You Probably Think This Essay Is About You.\'94 
\i Touching Feeling
\i0 . Durham, NC: Duke UP, 2003. Print.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 St. Clair, William. 
\i The Reading Nation in the Romantic Period
\i0 . Cambridge: Cambridge UP, 2004. Print.}