{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf100
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The goal of this serious thinking, for Felski, is to remind us \'93that our institutions and ways of life, passions and prejudices, are not those around which past lives were organized\'94 \'97 a discovery which will \'93shock\'94 us but also reinvigorate us, proving the necessary prerequisite to understant that future ways of life will also be organized differently. For Sedgwick, too, the possibility of \'93surprise\'94 in a non-paranoid reading, the idea that even the most predictable past events could have unfolded differently, is crucial for imagining change in the future. Our response to this alterity, however, marks one of the major differences between current scholarly work to integrate feeling into our understanding, and eighteenth century discourses. The late eighteenth century, and particularly the period in the 1790s defined by the ongoing aftershocks of the French Revolution, saw a similar acknowledgement that \'93our institutions and ways of life, passions and prejudices\'94 are not universal and invulnerable. Robert Miles is one of many to describe the impact of the French Revolution as centred less on individual events, and more on the alarming \'93historical rupture\'94 which the revolution was seen to constitute. For many, this rupture represented an opportunity for optimism \'97 but many more experienced the turmoil as near-apocalyptic, and even for optimists the sense of impending change was often uncomfortable. Miles argues that a widespread sense of profound change shaped far more than just political thought: \'93The sense of crisis \'85 linked to the yawning question of what now did legitimate state authority, profoundly marks the literary production of the Romantic era. The Enlightenment modes that survive in the 1790s differ substantially from those that reappear ten and fifteen years later.\'94 One way that these works were shaped by their context is a heightened sense of timeliness for published works.}