{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf810
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red83\green83\blue83;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c99997\c99999;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;
\cssrgb\c40000\c40000\c40000;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\'91Male\'92 and \'91Female\'92 Novels? Gendered Fictions and the Reading Public, 1770\'961832\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf4 \cb1 The fiction from 1770 to 1830 shows the strains of a society that increasingly identified cultural consumption with gender. Whereas the sentimental novels of the 1770s used epistolary narrators to relate stories of love and feeling from the perspective of both men and women, by the 1790s the new, Gothic novels were centred on women besieged by tyranny from without and uncertainty from within. This genre fiction contributed to the derogation of the novel and its association with an undiscriminating female audience. Throughout the period, women were held up as the quintessential novel-readers because more women were visibly writing and reading novels than ever before, and because the popular marriage plot, female hero, thematic focus on etiquette, and emphasis on delicacy and refinement all seemed to speak to feminine concerns. In fact, most novel- writers and novel-readers were men because men wrote and read more than women. 
\fs24 \
\

\fs29\fsmilli14667 Austen\'92s joke is that Thorpe\'97and by extension men in general\'97actually do read novels, and not only those with roguish male heroes, like Fielding\'92s Tom Jones (1749), or lurid scenes of rape and corruption, exemplified by Lewis\'92s The Monk (1796). As Thorpe confesses, men even read Gothic mysteries centred on persecuted women, like Radcliffe\'92s The Mysteries of Udolpho (1796). His attitude sketches out the battle-lines in the gendering of literary culture: whereas women read fantasy, \'91stuff and nonsense\'92, so ran the common claim, men read \'91fun and nature\'92, tales about violence, adventure, and real life. 
\fs24 \

\fs29\fsmilli14667 In fact, John Thorpe and Catherine admire precisely the same books: Gothic romances set in the dark past, depicting sensitive heroines mystified by traces of bloodshed and ghostly noises, and besieged by tyrannical murderers in remote castles. These novels exemplified cheap fiction for the audience at the turn of the nineteenth century and were publicly identified as women\'92s novels because of their feminine heroines and plots, and because of the places and ways they were read. However, Gothic novels were only one subgenre of fiction during the period from 1770 to 1820. They came to exemplify flawed, female fiction because they grew to be highly popular in the years following the French Revolution in 1789, when England was reeling with horror at the French violations of law, social convention, and gender roles. England\'92s defensiveness, indeed panic, during the period centred on who read, how and why they read, and especially what they read, and women seemed to be not only the targeted audience, but feminine ways of using the novel seemed to exemplify social decay. This prejudice was mainly based on fictions about fiction, and reflects not the reality of the reading public but a gendered discourse that centred on the novel. Fiction became the flashpoint for these gender anxieties because the novel was the central, prominent signal and symptom of a changing society, because the new kinds of novels focused on sexualized sensibility, and because of the rising female cultural presence. 
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl560\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs48 \cf4 Sentimental and Epistolary Novels 
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf4 during the 1770s with the surge of sentimentalism, novels broached new ground. These novels made emotion central to character and plot by deploying the new sentimental philosophy that held that human instincts were naturally benevolent, and that sympathy for fellow creatures demonstrated moral virtue. Such novels came by the end of the eighteenth century to be identified as \'91female\'92 partly because they followed the format set by the most influential innovator of epistolary fiction: Samuel Richardson. 
\fs24 \

\fs29\fsmilli14667 Laurence Sterne composes his immensely popular, nine-volume sentimental fiction The Life and Opinions of Tristram Shandy (1759\'9668) as the first-person narrative of his troubled protagonist, Tristram, writing to intimate readers conjured in his mind.  \'85 Sterne, however, did provide the model for Henry Mackenzie\'92s The Man of Feeling (1771), in which an unidentified narrator records for his own benefit his observations of Harley, the titular sentimental hero\'97a youth whose sensibilities are so acute that he expires of a suppressed love that he is too shy to declare and that hence mutates into physical disease, and although the protagonist is a man, the novel became a byword for the sort of sexually titillating fiction that women, especially young women, purportedly adored. 
\fs24 \
By the 1770s, indeed, many male protagonists were manifesting sentimental delicacy.\

\fs29\fsmilli14667 By the late 1770s, sentimental novels also increasingly featured women heroines and themes of female feeling. This translated in fiction into characters whose emotional responses to any acts of kindness or cruelty or violence and to scenes of beauty testified to their heroism. 
\fs24 \
if men and women both wrote sentimentally, the treatment of sex itself still became a main dividing line between genres and between audiences. The more explicit the treatment, the less women were involved\'97as authors or, presumably, audiences.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl560\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs48 \cf4 Gothic and Conduct Novels 
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf4 Sentimental and epistolary fiction may have drawn readers\'92 tears, but the subgenre that followed them, the Gothic novel, won different responses. Gothic novels solicited gasps of fear and shock\'97not merely reactions to the horrible events portrayed in the novel, but outraged responses to the horrible techniques of novels themselves. Gothic novels, with their exaggeratedly villainous and virtuous characters, improbable and tangled plots, themes of violence and violation, and sensationalistic techniques, obviously defied the realistic conventions governing earlier fiction. Critics\'92 disparagements, however, also resulted from the added weight novels bore as vehicles of emotional training for young readers. This emphasis on the instructiveness of fiction, itself a dramatic shift in literary aesthetics and philosophy, was largely caused by contemporary events. Novels in the 1790s were perched uneasily at the crux of a storm of ideas about politics, education, gender roles, and social practices as England, following the French Revolution, experienced a fierce, moralistic backlash that segregated and solidified gender roles. 
\fs24 \

\fs29\fsmilli14667 Yet the arguments that, first, only women read novels at all, and yet, secondly, that only bad women read novels whereas good women read good works\'97particularly sermons and conduct manuals\'97were manifestly untrue. By defining her novel as a \'91Moral Tale\'92, Edgeworth herself collapses the distinction between fictional tale-telling and morality, and reflects the fact that, since so many women read novels, neither all the women nor all the novels could be bad. Moreover, new novels had been a central topic of fashionable conversation for half a century, and novel-reading women were becoming increasingly visible as cultural consumers. Gender nonetheless remained a vital element in the construction, reception, and analysis of the form, and the issues it raises illuminate the development of the genre. 
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl560\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs48 \cf4 \'91By a Lady\'92: The Gender of Authors and 
\fs24 \

\fs48 Aesthetics 
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf4 What genders a novel? Is a \'91female\'92 novel so defined because it is written \'91By a Lady\'92, for ladies, or about ladies? Daniel Defoe\'92s Moll Flanders (1722), albeit written by a man, is certainly presented by a female narrator, and it is about a woman, but its tale of promiscuity and theft appealed as much to men as women. So did his cautionary tale purportedly for women, Roxana (1724), which chronicled its protagonist\'92s descent into whoredom, murder, and madness. By the late eighteenth century, however, more women than ever before were writing novels, and recent research has shown that they produced about a third of those published.
\fs21\fsmilli10667 \cf4 \up10 9 
\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf4 \up0 From 1770 to 1800, novels identified as female on their title pages crested, but so, indeed, did all novels, rising to 100 new 
\fs18\fsmilli9333 \cf5 \up5 (p. 362) 
\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf4 \up0 fictions a year in 1800.
\fs21\fsmilli10667 \cf4 \up10 10 
\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf4 \up0 Still, the prominence of the attribution \'91By a Lady\'92 indicates a shift in the relationship of gender to literature, particularly fiction: it signals that gender was becoming an aesthetic or formal aspect of fiction-writing\'97a matter not of the author\'92s sex but of the book\'92s.
\fs21\fsmilli10667 \cf4 \up10 11 
\b\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf4 \up0 Books that centred on women\'92s lives were not necessarily woman-authored, but they were perceived as probably so
\b0 : on reading Austen\'92s Pride and Prejudice, Annabella Milbanke (who became Lady Byron) speculated that it might have been written by Charlotte Smith, author of the popular Emmeline (1789), commenting to her mother: \'91I wish much to know who is the author or ess I am told.\'92
\fs21\fsmilli10667 \cf4 \up10 12 
\fs24 \cf4 \up0 \

\b\fs29\fsmilli14667 Fiction \'91By a Lady\'92 constituted only a part of the novels on offer in part because many authors of both genders remained anonymous, at least in their first efforts: of the 1,421 novels published between 1770 and 1799, the vast majority lacked any authorial attribution\'97no less than 71.3 per cent 
\b0\fs24 \

\fs29\fsmilli14667 Women also were understood to have a different sensibility from men. More protected and delicately built, they were attributed with trembling sensibilities centred on domesticity and romance. With greater private time and fewer distractions than men, women were also thought to brood upon the nuances of emotion and behaviour. Whereas early sentimental novelists saw this as a virtue, later writers found it dangerous because it could cause either self-destructive despair, or sexual excess. 
\fs24 \

\fs29\fsmilli14667 Their confined experience also appeared to allow women unique access to psychological depth. This psychological approach particularly flourished in the subgenre of the female Gothic, which emphasized the uncertainties of perception that heroines suffer in an obscure, dangerous, patriarchal world. Ann Radcliffe\'92s Gothic novels exemplify the genre by portraying heroines fleeing male violence or confined by tyrants, and entangled in murky plots featuring nefarious outlaws, madness, and murder. The suspense arises less from the dramatic action than from the technique of representing the scenes entirely through the protagonist\'92s consciousness. 
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf4 Radcliffe\'92s plot unravels through the fears, confusions, and superstitions of her heroine, so that readers can never clearly see where the truth lies. 
\fs24 \cf4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl200\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs18\fsmilli9333 \cf5 \up5 (p. 365) 
\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf4 \up0 However, the very narrowness of women\'92s experience was also credited with giving them an insight into social dynamics that translated into social realism 
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl560\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs48 \cf4 I Never Read Novels\'92: The Gender of 
\fs24 \

\fs48 Readers and Reading 
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf4 Among the fictions about fiction that stoked the fires of moral panic in the early Romantic period was the visibility of women reading novels. 
\b In fact, most novel-readers were male, as most readers always had been. By the mid-eighteenth century, only about 60 per cent of men and 40 per cent of women could read at all
\b0 , and, while works of religion, history, geography, and travel outstripped novels in most libraries, provincial novel-readers and library-borrowers were primarily male.
\fs21\fsmilli10667 \cf4 \up10 24 
\b\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf4 \up0 In fact, men and women read largely the same books
\b0 : the Prince Regent and his court admired Jane Austen\'92s novels, for example; she herself read purportedly immoral fictions by Fielding and Sterne, whom she parodies in her juvenilia; and Tristram himself reveals that he expects women to read his narrative by adjuring his reader on one famous occasion as \'91Madam!\'92. The poet and fiction reviewer Anna Laetitia Barbauld, wife of a minister, even commended the delicacy of Sterne\'92s sentimental touches.
\fs21\fsmilli10667 \cf4 \up10 25 
\fs24 \cf4 \up0 \
The proliferation of circulating fiction was seen to parallel the proliferation of female readers, and, indeed, publishers like the Minerva Press deliberately targeted women as their audience. The change in the sexual and social composition of the audience was a cultural shock. Women readers in great numbers, especially middle-class women, were a new audience, and as such, like servants, shook 
\fs29\fsmilli14667 the status quo by which literacy had demarcated the elite. By reading, women penetrated the public sphere as they never had before. 
\fs24 \
Much of the anxiety concerning women reading resulted from where they read: places that seemed sequestered, improper, private, and fed a solitariness and secrecy that seemed to breed illegitimate fantasies.\

\fs29\fsmilli14667 While the model of moral reading remained devotional\'97the medieval study of a few texts, the daily conning of the Bible, the memorization and contemplation of selected, venerable works\'97the rush to read the newest novel required readers to speed through hundreds of pages. They seemed to read for the plot rather than the moral, for the sentimental vignette rather than the intellectual conception, for the quick fix of feeling instead of the lesson for life. There were so many books that they thus seemed to demand extensive rather than intensive reading 
\fs24 \

\fs29\fsmilli14667 Moreover, while men clearly also identified with heroes (and, indeed, heroines), they were trained in scepticism, judgement, and restraint whereas it was thought that women read corporeally, and thus experienced the physical effects of sympathy like blushing and fainting. Fiction thus seemed to feed their anti-intellectual instincts. The novel appeared to embody a new and gendered way of consuming literary culture itself. 
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl560\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs48 \cf4 Conclusion: The Gender of Novels 
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \

\fs29\fsmilli14667 Novels from 1770 to 1830 change style, theme, and mode. In the 1770s, sentimental epistolary fiction dominates; the 1780s see the beginning of conduct novels that last well into the Victorian period; the 1790s witness a thunderclap of Gothic; and by the 1810s, Romantic fiction was becoming the latest subgenre. Yet to readers from 1770 to 1830, individual novels also appear to have, or at least to hint at, a gender themselves. This identification of a text with a sex was manufactured from the combination of the gender of their heroes, their plots and settings, their aesthetic techniques, and a moral tone that solicited either male or female readers. 
\fs24 \

\fs29\fsmilli14667 As many women novelists at the beginning of the nineteenth century transformed conduct literature into a fictional form, proving lessons in social etiquette and self-discipline woven into love stories, Romantic fiction, spurred on by Scott, made extreme characters and epic scope the novel\'92s province. \'91Interesting\'92 stories\'97that is, stories with a love interest\'97and stories of familial relations, female roles, and women\'92s behaviour were considered \'91female\'92.
\fs21\fsmilli10667 \cf4 \up10 32 
\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf4 \up0 Conduct fiction that placed the sentimental heroine not in situations of deadly danger in faraway lands, but plumb in the middle of upper-echelon English society similarly seemed instructions for women alone, whereas Romantic fiction that placed her\'97or more often, him\'97on the margins challenged social conventions in a fashion that undermined social mores. Thus, according to 
\fs18\fsmilli9333 \cf5 \up5 (p. 369) 
\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf4 \up0 Reeve, didactic texts which advance virtue and morality were coded as \'91female\'92, whereas texts like Fielding\'92s or Scott\'92s with roistering heroes, adventurous plots, and promiscuous heroes, previously considered fare for both genders, were considered male.  
\fs24 \
The supposed division between a male and a female book is particularly clear in the contrast between Jane Austen\'92s Mansfield Park and Scott\'92s Waverley; or \'92Tis Sixty Years Since, both published in 1814. 
\fs29\fsmilli14667 In both novels, the heroes are distracted by inappropriate suitors but find true love, and in both a quarrel in the family\'97between brothers, in Scott\'92s case, and sisters in Austen\'92s\'97 stimulate the complications of the plot. In the man\'92s novel, however, the male hero leaves home and, despite misadventures, regains his honour and wins a pardon through military action; in the woman\'92s, the heroine earns status and reward by moral self-discipline and passive resistance. 
\fs24 \

\b\fs29\fsmilli14667 Nonetheless, \'91male\'92 and \'91female\'92 novels of the period share themes and plot lines.
\b0  Foremost are the themes of the discovery of identity and recovery of inheritance. In Smollett\'92s Humphry Clinker, the servant Humphry is discovered miraculously to be the natural son of his irascible but tender-hearted master, Matthew Bramble, while, among many other examples, Radcliffe\'92s Romance of the Forest (1791), The Mysteries of Udolpho, and The Italian (1797), not to mention Eleanor Sleath\'92s Minerva Press novel Orphan of the Rhine (1798), all concern the heroine\'92s recovery of her identity and fortune. By the nineteenth century, in fact, reading and readers of novels began to escape gender- identification as the genre became a respected part of British literary heritage, legitimate \'97even laudable\'97reading-matter for both genders. Significantly, Barbauld\'92s British Novelists, itself an emblem of the rise of the novel\'92s prestige in the Romantic period, does not differentiate authors by gender or novels by subgenre: Elizabeth Inchbald, Charlotte Smith, Frances Burney, and Ann Radcliffe conclude the series, but her list includes French and German titles, satirical and historical fictions, even a Chinese novel, as well as the by-then canonical productions of Laurence Sterne, Henry Fielding, Samuel Richardson, Samuel Johnson, and a host of works now forgotten. In fact, Barbauld uses the new prominence of women writers to prove the genre\'92s probity, declaring that: \'91A very great proportion of [good writers] are ladies: and surely it will not be said that either taste or moral have been losers by their taking the pen.\'92
\fs21\fsmilli10667 \cf4 \up10 35 
\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf4 \up0 By the end of the Regency, as Romanticism began gradually to shift into what would become a Victorian moral aesthetic, it was still Scott\'92s Waverley that grew so madly popular with both genders that it sold out its 1,000 copies in five weeks, and appeared in six editions by the end of the year.
\fs21\fsmilli10667 \cf4 \up10 36 
\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf4 \up0 The novel had become a genderless literary genre. 
\fs24 \
\
}