{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf810
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red38\green38\blue38;\red128\green255\blue105;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c14902\c14902\c14902;\csgenericrgb\c50196\c100000\c41176;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\fi700\sl480\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Love turns to sociological microanalysis as a model for 'thin description' close-but-not-deep reading methods \'85 I propose (qualitative?) macroanalysis as another model which seeks the same goals\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sa120\pardirnatural

\f1\fs22 \cf2 \'93Some literary critics have responded to the declining fortunes of textuality by renewing their commitment to the discipline.3 Alongside such responses, however, critics have also responded by displacing the text from the center of literary studies.\'94 (403)\
\'93In addition, in recent debates on method, critics have elaborated arguments for modes of reading that seem polemically aimed against the disciplinary core of the field (as in Franco Moretti\'92s account of \'93distant reading\'94 [2000: 57]). It seems that those dense webs of significance are not as significant as they used to be.\'94
\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\fi700\sl480\slmult1\pardirnatural
\cf0 \'93
\f1\fs22 \cf2 I argue that literary studies might forge an expanded defense of reading by considering practices of exhaustive, thin description undertaken in proximate disciplines.\'94 (404)
\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
\'93
\fs26 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Through its exhaustive, fine-grained attention to phenomena, thin description offers a model for close reading after the decline of the linguistic turn.\'94 (404) \
\'97> it also lends itself well to recombination by future critics; in many ways what these bibliographies have provided is \'93thin description\'94!\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240
\cf0 The wink is a failure if its intended recipient does not see it; or sees it but does not know or forgets the code; or misconstrues it; or disobeys or disbelieves it; or if anyone else spots it. A mere twitch, on the other hand, is neither a failure nor a success; it has no intended recipient; it is not meant to be unwitnessed by anybody; it carries no message. It may be a symptom but it is not a signal. The winker could not 
\i not 
\i0 know that he was winking; but the victim of the twitch might be quite unaware of his twitch. 
\fs24 (406)\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240
\cf0 \cb3 \'93
\f1\fs22 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 Thin description means, in effect, taking up the position of the device; by turning oneself into a camera, one could\'97at least ideally\'97pay equal attention to every aspect of a scene that is available to the senses and record it faithfully.\'94 (407)\cb1 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sa120\pardirnatural
\cf2 \'93(the reductionist account is a true account, though not the only possible one)\'94 (408)\
\
\'93. Moretti\'92s concept of \'93distant reading\'94 as well as approaches in book history and humanities computing sidestep hermeneutics and familiar modes of contextualization associated with thick description and various historicisms. Treating the book as a material object, a commodity, or a social fact, these methods put books back in contact with hard surfaces of life including trade, industry, craft traditions, marketplaces, publics, geography, and discourse networks.\'94 (411)\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\f0\fs26 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
surface reading remains attentive (or even hyperattentive) to the text itself. Surface reading makes reading central, but it focuses on aspects of texts often seen as too obvious to be of interest. In this sense, it is descriptive: it defers virtuosic interpretation in order to attempt to formulate an accurate account of what the text is 
\i like
\i0 . 
\fs24  (412)\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sa120\pardirnatural

\f1\fs22 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \'93\cb3 By foregrounding observation and description, I suggest that we can better account for all the things that texts are\'97the way they appear, how they behave, what they communicate.\cb1  In addition, such an approach illuminates the merely descriptive features of literary texts and the complex links between texts and social worlds.\'94  (412)\
\
\'93
\f0\fs26 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
With the practical difficulties it poses, the specific nature of the objects of analysis (interactional dynamics in everyday situations), and the exhaustive description and coding of highly uneventful samples of experience, it could end up being what it sounds like, which is to say, really boring.\cb3  The anxiety that exhaustive descriptive could be exhausting\'97 time-consuming and tiresome\'97underwrites a lot of negative responses\'85\'94\cb1  (418)\
\

\f1\fs22 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \'93Data and details, thin and thick description, come together in the microanalytic tradition, which provides a model of slow, detailed reading.\'94 (419)\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sa120\pardirnatural
\cf2 \cb3 a difference between asking \'93What is it that's going on here?" (421) and \'93What is it that is /really/ going on here?\'94 (422)\cb1 \
\
\'93
\f0\fs26 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
To try to find out what it is that is going on in a text is to ignore the key constraints and affordances of the literary: irony, fictionality, layering of perspective, genre, plotting, and so / on\'94 (426-7)\
\
\'93\cb3 Detextualization\cb1  need not exclude interpretation, but it could also make room for other practices such as description, observation, and natural history, as well as testing, polling, and coding. 
\fs24 [\'85] 
\fs26 Taking up the descriptive methods of the postwar microanalysis makes it possible to challenge narrow hermeneutic definitions of reading. Instead, such practices might help us \cb3 reframe reading as a social science\cb1 , one that along with more traditional social scientific methods can contribute to the project of showing \'93what the real world is really like.\'94\'94 
\fs24 (430)}