{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red254\green217\blue206;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c100000\c88200\c84300;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 Adapting Frank\'92s model for my own, then, required working somewhat against the grain of his assumptions. However, I have avoided over-reducing his work by simply assigning each text one single genre. Instead, I have separated out each strand of influence within his complex \'93Gothic types\'94  by dividing each \'93type\'94 into a set of tags, and tallied the uses of each {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://40A71AA1-AC4F-4C83-88DE-25B4DCC306F5"}}{\fldrslt tag.}} This process generated 190 unique tags, most of which only apply to one or two works. By rendering the tags individually listable, my model imposes a more systematic ontology than Frank\'92s. However, because each work is \'93tagged\'94 numerous times, my model retains the details of each work\'92s often-idiosyncratic combinations of influences. My approach treats each \'93tag\'94 as an independent object of inquiry, informative of one small facet of a work\'92s participation in its generic context. I ask whether the association of a given tag with a work constitutes meaningful information regarding the probable gender of that work\'92s author.\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb2 \'93To present a usable taxonomy of the several varieties of Gothic experience and to classify and define the multifarious Gothic types, the overall method of selection has been to gather clusters of Gothics that would reflect all discernible subcategories and hybridizations of the Gothic romance. Thus, there is a strong representative sampling but a still highly limited listing of the high or pure Gothic novel in both its terror and horror modes\'85 Abundant examples of Gothified histories, or historical novels written in the key of high terror or horror, establish the importance of this branch of Gothicism. Emergent trends of the genre may also be traced in the numerous specimens of didactic or sentimental novels veering toward or drawing directly upon the Gothic\'94 (xiii) \'93The immoderate quantity of shilling shockers contained in The First Gothics intentionally suggests the shape in which the Gothic impulse would perpetuate and reproduce itself far into the Nineteenth Century\'94 (xiv)}