{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red10\green10\blue10;\red236\green236\blue236;\red31\green60\blue113;
\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c3922\c3922\c3922;\cssrgb\c94118\c94118\c94118;\cssrgb\c15686\c30980\c51765;
\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Wayne, Valerie. "The First Folio\'92s Arrangement and Its Finale."\'a0
\i Shakespeare Quarterly
\i0 , vol. 66 no. 4, 2015, pp. 389-408.\'a0
\i Project MUSE
\i0 ,\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://doi.org/10.1353/shq.2015.0064"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \strokec4 doi:10.1353/shq.2015.0064}}
\fs32 \cb5 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
Romance and tragicomedy were not recognized as genres within the First Folio\'92s categories. Plays that could be so characterized were instead distributed among the three genres, with\'a0
\i The Tempest
\i0 \'a0and\'a0
\i The Winter\'92s Tale
\i0 \'a0positioned as comedies;\'a0
\i Henry VIII
\i0 \'a0as a history;\'a0
\i Cymbeline
\i0 \'a0as a tragedy; and\'a0
\i Pericles, Cardenio
\i0 , and\'a0
\i The Two Noble Kinsmen 
\i0 absent entirely. Proudfoot points out that\'a0
\i Cymbeline
\i0 \'a0can nonetheless be considered a tragedy by Renaissance definitions of the genre. \'85 It is not a tragedy as that form is most widely understood today or as Johnson understood it in the eighteenth century, but it did sufficiently meet Renaissance definitions to be positioned at the end of that section in the First Folio.\
\
\
\'a0When\'a0
\i Troilus and Cressida
\i0 \'a0was added after the Catalogue was printed, its title and two running heads identified it as a \'93Tragedie\'94 although the two quarto printings had termed it a \'93Historie\'94 and a prefatory note in one of them presented it as a comedy.\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\partightenfactor0

\i \cf2 Cymbeline
\i0 \'92s classification as a tragedy has nonetheless produced manifold problems for its reception, not least of them Samuel Johnson\'92s entertaining dismissal of \'93the folly of the fiction, the absurdity of the conduct, the confusion of the names and manners of different times, and the impossibility of the events in any system of life.\'94{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://muse.jhu.edu.myaccess.library.utoronto.ca/article/613033#f47"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs24 \cf4 \strokec4 47}}\'a0Barbara Mowat observes of this response, \'93Had the Folio not placed\'a0
\i Cymbeline
\i0 \'a0as the last of the \'91Tragedies,\'92 surrounding it with misleading paratextual matter (\'91The Tragedie of Cymbeline\'92 as title and running head), Johnson might well never have attacked the play.\'94\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\partightenfactor0

\fs26 \cf2 Barbara A. Mowat, \'93\'91What\'92s in a Name?\'92: Tragicomedy, Romance, or Late Comedy,\'94 in\'a0
\i A Companion to Shakespeare\'92s Works
\i0 , ed. Richard Dutton and Jean E. Howard, vol. 4,\'a0
\i The Poems, Problem Comedies, Late Plays
\i0 \'a0(Oxford: Blackwell, 2003), 129\'9649, esp. 130.\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf2 As a highly experimental play, its genre is mixed, but the Folio\'92s category of tragedy was made sufficiently elastic to accommodate it.\'a0
\i Cymbeline
\i0 \'a0is a play of mixed genres that turns on calumny and international conflict in keeping with other dramatic romances of its time. It is also a tragicomedy that tempers sensationalism with metatheatricality; a history play about early Britain\'92s encounters with Roman imperialism in light of James I\'92s attempts to recover a national British identity; and a tragedy with a happy ending in keeping with Aristotelian and neoclassical definitions.{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://muse.jhu.edu.myaccess.library.utoronto.ca/article/613033#f53"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs24 \cf4 \strokec4 53}}\'a0It is not a tragedy as that form is most widely understood today or as Johnson understood it in the eighteenth century, but it did sufficiently meet Renaissance definitions to be positioned at the end of that section in the First Folio.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://muse.jhu.edu.myaccess.library.utoronto.ca/article/613033#f53-text"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs26 \cf4 \strokec4 53.}}
\fs26 \'a0The applicability of each of these genres is treated at greater length in my introduction to\'a0
\i Cymbeline
\i0 , ed. Valerie Wayne (London: Arden Shakespeare, 2017).}