{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf810
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red58\green58\blue58;\red255\green255\blue255;\red230\green255\blue79;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c29412\c29412\c29412;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\csgenericrgb\c90000\c100000\c31000;
}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa200

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 The editors invite contributions on all aspects of the eighteenth century. Essays employing interdisciplinary perspectives or addressing contemporary theoretical and cultural concerns relating to the eighteenth century are especially encouraged. Articles which are selected for publication are those which make a significant and original contribution to their field. The editors also invite submission of previously unpublished or little-known primary sources, with translation or commentary.\
Article submissions are first screened for their appropriateness for the journal. Articles which are considered for publication are sent to two reviewers: one reviewer, generally drawn from the author\'92s home discipline, serves as a specialist in the subject matter at hand while the other, generally drawn from a second discipline, approaches the article from a broader thematic perspective. Based on these initial reviewers\'92 reports, the article is either rejected, returned for revisions, or passed on to the editorial board for another level of review.\'a0 Once in the hands of the editorial board, each article is read by at least one additional reviewer. These editorial board reviewers make publishing recommendations to the editor, who makes the final decision regarding publication.\
Manuscripts \cb4 should not exceed 7,500 words, including notes\cb3 . \cb4 Style must conform to 
\i The Chicago Manual of Style 16th edition
\i0 , with endnotes.\cb3  Quotations from foreign texts should appear in the body of the essay followed by translations. Please supply an \cb4 abstract of 100 or fewer words \cb3 with your paper. Illustrations are accepted if pertinent to the essay (authors must secure glossy prints or digital files and reproduction rights if the essay is accepted). 
\b It is the journal's policy to require assignment of copyright from all authors.
\b0  Authors must obtain written permission for quoting unpublished or published material in excess of fair use.}