{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 Drakakis, John. \'93Shakespeare Against Genre.\'94 
\i P\'f3lemos
\i0  7.1 (2013).\
\
\'93I deliberately problematise those categorisations that were established by Heminges and Condell in the First Folio and that have proved remarkably resilient over the centuries. It is not that each play can be regarded as sui generis but that each play participates in a struggle between what we identify, for our own critical convenience, as genres and an impetus \'96 conscious or otherwise \'96 to innovate.\'94 (Drakakis 89)\
\
\'93Indeed, Lawrence Danson, in his book Shakespeare\'92s Dramatic Genres proposes at one point that we might be justified in seeing all 37 of the plays as somehow sui generis, problematical in terms of assigning them to any particular genre.\'94 (Drakakis 88)\
\'93Another version of this problematic might be Stephen Greenblatt\'92s account of genre in his essay \'93Murdering Peasants: Status, Genre, and the Representation of Rebellion\'94 that first appeared in Learning to Curse: Essays in Early Modern Culture (1990). In his account of D\'fcrer\'92s 1525 design for a monument commemo- rating a victory over a rebellious peasantry, he observes that while every genre \'93is a received collective practice, [. . .] the social conditions of this practice \'96 both the circumstances that make the genre possible and the objects that the genre represents \'96 may change in such a way as to undermine the form.\'94 (Drakakis 88)\
\
Implicitly defines genre in terms of: \'93I want for the remainder of this paper to concentrate on three plays where these issues surface and in surprising ways as the dramatist re-uses and refurbishes earlier 
\b details, plots, and dramatis personae
\b0 , in new and surprising combinations. We are now more aware than ever that the links between 
\i The Merchant of Venice
\i0  and 
\i Othello
\i0 , and in particular their common setting in Venice, are much closer than they have traditionally thought to have been. Also, between these two plays is sandwiched a very dark \'93comedy\'94 indeed, 
\i Much Ado About Nothing
\i0 , and between these three plays there circulates a number of 
\b themes
\b0 , and 
\b motifs
\b0  in addition to a constant shifting of 
\b tones
\b0  as the plays move through a range of dramatic registers.\'94 (Drakakis 92)\
\'93In each of the cases I have adduced \'93comedy\'94 is shown to be a \'93serious business.\'94 All that is required is a slight adjustment of what on the surface seems to be comic form, and the result is catastrophe.\'94 (94)\
\
\'93
\b It has been a commonplace critical observation that 
\i Othello
\i0  (1604) is a play that is formally a comedy.
\b0 \'94 (94)\
\'93In an attempt to argue that the play is a \'93domestic\'94 tragedy, the late A. D. Nuttall observed that the play is \'93the story of a hero who went into a house.\'9422 This is not a judgement that will withstand too much interrogation.\'94 (95)\
\'93Thematically these fears are present in both plays \'96 and they are also there in Much Ado \'96 and they stretch across the comic-tragic divide.\
The difference between them, however, lies in the level of introspection ac- corded to the central characters.\'94 (96)\
\
\'93And so it is with the dramatic genres within and against which Shakespeare was working. Inside comedy there is tragedy, and inside tragedy there is comedy. The one play that transcends this binary, however, is The Winter\'92s Tale that combines the comedy of Much Ado and the tragedy of Othello in a new adventurous synthesis in which patriarchal anxiety is shown to be embodied in the language itself, and where death can be averted and avoided.\'94 (97)}