{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf810
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red21\green38\blue95;\red143\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c8235\c14902\c37255;\csgenericrgb\c56078\c100000\c100000;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\fi700\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \'93
\fs26  Gardin refers to "simulation," Frye to "modeling." Both of these rather ill-defined terms share a common epistemological sense: use of a likeness to gain knowledge of its original. We can see immediately why computing should be spoken of in these terms, as it represents knowledge of things in manipulable form, thus allows us to simulate or model these things.\'94\
\
\'93My intention here is to summarize the available help, chiefly from the history and philosophy of the natural sciences, especially physics, where most of the relevant work is to be found. I concentrate on the term "modeling" because that is the predominate term in scientific practice \'97 but it is also, perhaps even by nature, the term around which meanings I find the most useful tend to cluster. I will then give an extended example from humanities computing and discuss the epistemological implications. Finally I will return to Jean-Claude Gardin's very different agenda, what he calls "the logicist programme," and to closely allied questions of knowledge representation in artificial intelligence.\'94\
\
\'93Historians and philosophers of science, including both of these, have tried their best to anatomize modeling on the basis of the only reliable source of evidence \'97 namely actual scientific practice. But this is precisely what makes the conceptual difficulty significant: modeling grows out of practice, not out of theory, and so is rooted in stubbornly tacit knowledge \'97 i.e., knowledge that is not merely unspoken but may also be unspeakable.\'94\
\
\'93The most basic distinction is, in Clifford Geertz's terms, between "an 'of' sense and a 'for' sense" of modeling (1993/1973: 93). A model 
\i of
\i0  something is an exploratory device, a more or less "poor substitute" for the real thing ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://digitalhumanities.org:3030/companion/view?docId=blackwell/9781405148641/9781405148641.xml&doc.view=content&chunk.id=ss1-6-2&toc.depth=1&brand=9781405148641_brand&anchor.id=0#ss1-6-2_b13"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Groenewold 1961}}: 98). We build such models-of because the object of study is inaccessible or intractable, like poetry or subatomic whatever-they-are. In contrast a model 
\i for
\i0  something is a design, exemplary ideal, archetype or other guiding preconception. Thus we construct a model 
\i of
\i0  an airplane in order to see how it works; we design a model 
\i for
\i0  an airplane to guide its construction. A crucial point is that both kinds are 
\i imagined
\i0 , the former out of a pre-existing reality, the latter into a world that doesn't yet exist, as a plan for its realization.\'94\
\
\'93In both cases, as Russian sociologist Teodor Shanin has argued, the product is an ontological hybrid: models, that is, bridge subject and object, consciousness and existence, theory and empirical data (1972: 9). They comprise a practical means of playing out the consequences of an idea in the real world. Shanin goes on to argue that models-of allow the researcher to negotiate the gulf between a "limited and selective consciousness" on the one hand and "the unlimited complexity and 'richness' of the object" on the other (1972: 10). This negotiation happens, Shanin notes, "by purposeful simplification and by transformation of the object of study inside consciousness itself." In other words, a model-of is made in a consciously simplifying act of interpretation. Although this kind of model is not necessarily a physical object, the goal of simplification is to make 
\i tractable
\i0  or 
\i manipulable
\i0  what the modeler regards as interesting about it.\'94\
\
\'93A fundamental principle for modeling-of is the exact correspondence between model and object with respect to the webs of relationships among the selected elements in each. Nevertheless, such 
\i isomorphism
\i0  (as it is called) may be violated deliberately in order to study the consequences. In addition to distortions, a model-of may also require "properties of convenience," such as the mechanism by which a model airplane is suspended in a wind-tunnel. Thus a model-of is fictional not only by being a representation, and so not the thing itself, but also by selective omission and perhaps by distortion and inclusion as well.\'94\
\
\'93Since modeling is pragmatic, the worth of a model must be judged by its fruitfulness. The principle of isomorphism means, however, that for a model-of, this fruitfulness is meaningful in proportion to the "goodness of the fit" between model and original, as Black points out (1962: 238). But at the same time, more than a purely instrumental value obtains. A model-of is not constructed directly from its object; rather, as a bridge between theory and empirical data, the model participates in both, as Shanin says.\cb3  In consequence a good model can be fruitful in two ways: either by fulfilling our expectations, and so strengthening its theoretical basis, or by violating them\cb1 , and so bringing that basis into question. I argue that from the research perspective of the model, in the context of the humanities,\cb3  failure to give us what we expect is by far the more important result\cb1 , however unwelcome surprises may be to granting agencies.\'94\
\
\'93This is so because, as the philosopher of history R. G. Collingwood has said, "Science in general \'85 does not consist in collecting what we already know and arranging it in this or that kind of pattern. It consists in fastening upon something we do not know, and trying to discover it That is why 
\i all science begins from the knowledge of our own ignorance
\i0 : not our ignorance of everything, but our ignorance of some definite thing \'85 " (1993/1946: 9). When a good model fails to give us what we expect, it does precisely this: it points to "our ignorance of some definite thing.\'94\'94\
\
\'93It is a computational model because the analysis that defines it obeys two fundamental rules: total explicitness and absolute consistency. Thus everything to be modeled must be explicitly represented, and it must be represented in exactly the same way every time.\'94\
\
\'93The imaginative language of poetry doesn't survive well under such a regime. But this is only what we expect from modeling, during which (as Teodor Shanin said) the "limited and selective consciousness" of the modeler comes up against "the unlimited complexity and 'richness' of the object." In the case of poetry the result can only be a model of the tinker-toy variety, Vannevar Bush's "stone adze in the hands of a cabinetmaker." Nevertheless, with care, scholarly furniture may be made with this adze. In return for "suspension of ontological unbelief," as Black said about models generally (1962: 228), modeling gives us manipulatory power over the data of personification. With such a model we can then engage in the second-order modeling of these data by adjusting the factors and their weightings, producing different results and raising new questions. The model can be exported to other texts, tried out on them in a new round of recursive modeling, with the aim of producing a more inclusive model, or a better questions about personification from which a better model may be constructed. This is really the normal course of modeling in the sciences as well: the working model begins to converge on the theoretical model.\'94\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 At the same time, Edward Sapir famously remarked, "All grammars leak" (1921: 47). \cb3 The failures\cb1  of the model \'97 the anomalous cases only special pleading would admit \'97 are the leaks that \cb3 reflect questioningly back on the theoretical model\cb1  of the 
\i Metamorphoses
\i0  and so challenge fundamental research. They point, again as Collingwood said, to our ignorance of a particular thing.\
\
\
\'97 Model For \'97\
\
(1) experiment is an epistemological practice of its own, related to but not dependent on theory; and (2) experiment is not simply heuristic but, in the words the literary critic Jerome McGann borrowed famously from Lisa Samuels, is directed to "imagining what we don't know" (2001: 105ff), i.e., to making new knowledge. This is the face that modeling turns to the future, that which I have called the "model-for," but which must be understood in Hacking's interventionist sense.\
\
Models-for do not have to be such conscious things. They can be the serendipitous outcome of play or of accident. What counts in these cases, Hacking notes, is not observation but being observant, attentive not simply to anomalies but to the fact that something is fundamentally, significantly anomalous \'97 a bit of a more inclusive reality intruding into business as usual.\
\
\'97\
\
The conception of modeling I have developed here on the basis of practice in the physical sciences gives us a crude but useful machine with its crude but useful tools and a robust if theoretically unattached epistemology. It assumes a transcendent, imperfectly accessible reality for the artifacts we study, recognizes the central role of tacit knowledge in humanistic ways of knowing them and, while giving us unprecedented means for systematizing these ways, is pragmatically anti-realist about them. Its fruits are manipulatory control of the modeled data and, by reducing the reducible to mechanical form, identification of new horizons for research.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\fi700\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0  Whereas modeling treats the ill-fitting residue of formalization as meaningfully problematic and problematizing, logicism exiles it \'97 and that, I think, is the crucial point.\
\
 We must beware that we do not pervert our wheels of logic into "symbols of objective mastery" over ourselves but use them to identify what they cannot compute. Their failures and every other well-crafted error we make are exactly the point, so that (now to quote the Bard precisely) we indeed are "Minding true things by what their mock'ries be" (
\i Henry V
\i0  iv.53).\
}