{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 There\'92s distant reading / \'93macroanalysis\'94 (Jockers), which seeks to answer large questions of cultural history. And there\'92s something more akin to \'93close reading at a distance\'94 or what Hoover terms \'93microanalysis,\'94 which uses \'93style variation within a single work or author as a way of better understanding authorship and style\'94 (Hoover DSH 2016). At both scales, a lot of work exists using stylometry to examine long prose works, with methods that are often thoughtfully adapted to address poetry as well.\
Drama, however, poses a unique challenge to distant reading: its meaning is only partly captured by the page. In the long arc of theatrical criticism, the process of 
\i reading
\i0  drama has required justification in comparison to 
\i watching
\i0  drama. Even in periods when reading was ascendant, as in the 18thC, this is due to the perfections of the \'93theatre of the mind\'94 as superior to the physical theatre, to allow the creation of that which constitutes the play but is not present on the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://CA9C49AC-45B8-43DB-9881-DC074B2BD91C"}}{\fldrslt page}}.\
Rather than adapting distant reading methodologies which were designed for prose and retrofitted for drama, we set out to define a method which was designed for drama: social network graphs. Ours is not the first project to conceive of plays as social networks. Because dramatic performances enact social encounters, social network analysis translates surprisingly well to fictional societies. Stiller et al. have shown that social networks in Shakespeare\'92s plays mirror those of real human interactions, particularly in size, clustering, and maximum degrees of separation (2003). However, as fictions, these networks are shaped not only by sociological principles, but also by narrative structures. Moretti uses social networks to examine the plots of three Shakespearean tragedies, and to contrast the structure of chapters in English and Chinese novels (2011). Alberich et al. (2002) and Sparavigna (2013) also discuss the interplay between social and narrative constraints on networks. We emphasize this distinction to look for specifically literary features of our {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://3E9988D6-E23A-4D4D-8FAA-31AF9FBC7DBF"}}{\fldrslt networks}}.\
Modelling a play as a social network of character interaction renders the speech act as the fundamental \'93unit\'94 of a play\'92s {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://029E3442-FE83-425D-9846-8FEFD6ADA2C2"}}{\fldrslt script.}} People talking to each other is what makes a play happen. Length, direction, number, and reciprocity of speech are shaped by underlying social relations. The action of the play, too \'97 its narrative content \'97 is a result of varying social relations attempting to work themselves out. What these patterns of speech acts ultimately 
\i mean
\i0  will vary based on theatrical context: for example, in Dryden, it is a mark of The King\'92s social importance that he receives long reports of others\'92 deeds, whereas in Shakespeare, it is the mark of Hamlet\'92s importance in the play that he 
\i gives
\i0  long speeches. Matching these speech-act patterns to specific narrative content enables the theorization of the constituent features of genre/period/author.\
Our paper, using a case study of Shakespeare\'92s works and the Early Modern generic categories of \'93tragedy,\'94 \'93comedy,\'94 and \'93history,\'94 demonstrates that the social networks of plays do encode narrative content. Moreover, this encoding of narrative content is meaningful for both microanalysis and macroanalysis. Mic drop.\
\
}