{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf810
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Their confined experience also appeared to allow women unique access to psychological depth. This psychological approach particularly flourished in the subgenre of the female Gothic, which emphasized the uncertainties of perception that heroines suffer in an obscure, dangerous, patriarchal world. Ann Radcliffe\'92s Gothic novels exemplify the genre by portraying heroines fleeing male violence or confined by tyrants, and entangled in murky plots featuring nefarious outlaws, madness, and murder. The suspense arises less from the dramatic action than from the technique of representing the scenes entirely through the protagonist\'92s consciousness. 
\fs24  \'85 
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf2 Radcliffe\'92s plot unravels through the fears, confusions, and superstitions of her heroine, so that readers can never clearly see where the truth lies.  (\'93Male\'94 and \'93Female\'94 Novels?)\

\b\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Nonetheless, \'91male\'92 and \'91female\'92 novels of the period share themes and plot lines.
\b0  Foremost are the themes of the discovery of identity and recovery of inheritance. (\'93Male\'94 and \'93Female\'94 Novels?)\
Gothic novels took two distinct forms depending on whether, structurally speaking, the protagonist is an exemplary woman (or man) or a morally reprehensible villain. 
\b The \'91female Gothic\'92 is a serious action\'97like Pamela\'97a melodrama arousing sympathy and suspense through the unwarranted persecution of an innocent. The \'91male Gothic\'92 is a punitive tragedy\'97like Richard III or Macbeth\'97in which we are made both to desire and to expect the condign punishment of the central figure.
\b0  The first subgenre includes The Mysteries of Udolpho and The Italian, and countless imitators. The second includes the main plot of The Monk, sections of Melmoth the Wanderer, and Confessions of a Justified Sinner. These may exist in relatively pure form, but some Gothic novels, including The Castle of Otranto, have incorporated both plots into a mixed form whose focus shifts in different parts of the narrative. (The Gothic Novel and the Lingering Appeal of Romance)\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl340\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The most successful Gothic villains, the Montonis and Schedonis, are dark fathers, images of the demon lover or the destroying angel. Within the plot structure of the romance, these figures are frequently the heroine\'92s uncle\'97a displacement from literal fatherhood that underlines the incestuous basis of the fear and love they exact while making more probable the heroine\'92s terrors of violation or murder. 
\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs29\fsmilli14667 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
In Gothic romances like The Monk and Melmoth the Wanderer, written by and largely for men, the Oedipal agon often takes the appropriately opposite form, with the male victim in thrall to a maternal woman. \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 To conclude, there were in the 1790s two very different implied readers: the first, whom clergymen and journalists of the age personified as older and male, read primarily for factual information, for the reinforcement of ethical values, and for the pleasure of recognizing the persons and things of his world; the second was personified as younger and female, receptive rather than critical, and eager to indulge in the pleasures of the imagination. And the Gothic vogue was partly self-reinforcing, in that its popularity began to draw in new classes of reader who had not formerly been a significant part of the market for literature. One major result was to pave the way for the reception of Romanticism in poetry as well as fiction, with the result that English bards\'97Wordsworth, Byron, and Scott, at least\'97despite a bit of rough handling from Scottish reviewers, were able to stir without conspicuous resistance a public that already looked to literature for the play of fantasy, dream, and desire. The second result was in the Gothic itself, which after 1810 tended to abandon the historical themes of Radcliffe for the more explicitly fantastic imaginative worlds of Mary Shelley and Charles Robert Maturin. By then the Gothic wave itself had already begun to recede, leaving in its ebb two masterpieces, Frankenstein (1818) and Melmoth the Wanderer (1820). While the Gothic was to rise again, first with the Bront\'ebs, and later, at the end of the nineteenth century, with the supernatural tales of Stevenson, James, Wilde, and Stoker, the romance of Radcliffe was at an end, destroyed, ironically, by that arch-romantic poet, Walter Scott. \'85 The popularity of Scott and historical romances like his was immense, because in effect 
\b Scott had, by his use of realistic detail, licensed male readers to enjoy the romance
\b0 , which otherwise they had despised\'97or pretended to despise\'97as feminine aesthetic experience.  (The Gothic Novel and the Lingering Appeal of Romance)
\fs24 \
The \'91man of feeling\'92 is one who has\'91sense\'92 (that is to say, \'91nerve\'92), but whose capacity for moral action is inhibited ordisabled in some way. / 
\fs29\fsmilli14667 The woman of sensibility \'85 may represent either of two senses of the word \'91sensibility\'92: first, the ethical humanism of Sophia, who embodies the restraint, judgement, and sympathy that Hutcheson, Hume, and Smith distinguished as moral sentiments; and second, the excessively nervous sensibility of Harriot, a creature consumed by self-interest. (Developments in Sentimental Fiction)\
}