{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
A number of perennial doubts plague genre theory. Are genres really 'out there' in the world, or are they merely the constructions of analysts? Is there a finite taxonomy of genres or are they in principle infinite? Are genres timeless Platonic essences or ephemeral, time-bound entities? Are genres culture- bound or transcultural?... Should genre analysis be descriptive or proscriptive? 
\fs24 (1)\

\fs26\fsmilli13333 In literature the broadest division is between poetry, prose and drama, within which there are further divisions, such as tragedy and com- edy within the category of drama. Shakespeare re- ferred satirically to classifications such as 'tragedy, comedy, history, pastoral, pastoral-comical, histori- cal-pastoral, tragical-historical, tragical-comical- historical-pastoral...' (
\i \cf2 Hamlet 
\i0 \cf2 II ii). 
\fs24 (1)\

\fs26\fsmilli13333 Specific genres tend to be easy to recognize intuitively but difficult (if not impossible) to define. Particular features which are characteristic of a genre are not normally unique to it; it is their relative prominence, combination and functions which are distinctive (Neale 1980, 22-3). 
\fs24 (2)\

\fs26\fsmilli13333 How we define a genre depends on our purposes; the adequacy of our definition in terms of social science at least must surely be related to the light that the exploration sheds on the phenomenon. For instance (and this is a key concern of mine), if we are studying the way in which genre frames the reader's interpretation of a text then we would do well to focus on how readers identify genres rather than on theoretical distinctions. Defining genres may be problematic, but even if theorists were to abandon the concept, in everyday life people would continue to categorize texts. John Swales does note that 'a discourse community's nomenclature for genres is an important source of insight' (Swales 1990, 54), though like many academic theorists he later adds that such genre names 'typically need further validation' (
\i \cf2 ibid.
\i0 \cf2 , 58) 
\fs24  (3)}