{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red26\green26\blue26;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c13333\c13333\c13333;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl220\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Your conclusion, which feels extremely rushed, certainly threw this back into relief very effectively. By cutting some of the \'91ambiguous\'92 play section, you can devote more time to repackaging your findings for the audience. Summarize the paper, especially your primary findings and be suggestive about next steps. Don\'92t be afraid to bring this back to the literary question about genre you are facing, either. It is always safe to discuss the technical implications of method, but the work you present in this essay has too much relevance to be ignored. One way to do this is to return to your initial source of the question and revisit what your networks have shown about this initial claim.\
\
You begin by undermining your findings in the very first sentence of your conclusion; don\'92t do\
that. You do offer a tiny summary in the last 2 sentences, which are woefully under-\
representative of the work you did: Start by summarizing the paper thus far \'96 its stakes, its\
methods - and remind the reader of your findings. Finally, emphasise why this is important, but\
not simply as a methodological intervention. You have been performing literary scholarship here\
just as much as you have been counting things in plays; use this space to show what you are\
doing as a contribution to the study of genre in literature.}