{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red38\green38\blue38;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c14902\c14902\c14902;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li400\fi-400\sl480\slmult1\pardirnatural\qc

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Works Cited\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li400\fi-400\sl480\slmult1\pardirnatural
\cf0 Alberich, R., J. Miro-Julia, and F. Rossell\'f3. \'93Marvel Universe Looks Almost Like a Real Social Network.\'94 2002. 
\i ArXiv
\i0 .\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 Web. 25 Feb. 2016. <http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0202174>\
Austin, J. L. 
\i How To Do Things With Words: The William James Lectures delivered at Harvard University in 1955
\i0 . 1975. Oxford: Oxford Scholarship Online, 2011. Web. 10 October 2013.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 Bastian, Mathieu, et al. 
\i Gephi
\i0 . 
\fs26 \cf2 Vers. 0.9.1. Computer software. Paris: The Gephi Consortium, 2015.
\fs24 \cf0 \
Gauch, David. 
\i Multi-Djikstra\'92s Solver
\i0 . Vers. 1.1. 
\fs26 \cf2 Computer software. Madison, WI: n.p., 2016.
\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li400\fi-400\sl480\slmult1\pardirnatural
\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 Gruber, Elizabeth. \'93\'91Betray\'92d to Shame\'94: 
\i Venice Preserved
\i0  and the Paradox of She-Tragedy.\'94 
\i Connotations
\i0  16.1-3 (2006 / 2007): 158\'96171. 
\i Academic OneFile
\i0 . Web. 28 Jan 2016.\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 Hughes, David. \'93Human Sacrifice on the Restoration Stage: The Case of 
\i Venice Preserv'd
\i0 .\'94 
\i Philological Quarterly
\i0  88.4 (2009): 365\'96384. 
\i Academic OneFile
\i0 . Web. 31 March 2016.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li400\fi-400\sl480\slmult1\pardirnatural
\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 Luis-Mart\'ednez, Zen\'f3n. \'93\'91Seated in the Heart\'92: 
\i Venice Preserv'd
\i0  Between Pathos and Politics.\'94 
\i Restoration and th Century Theatre Research
\i0  23.2 (2008): 23\'9642. 
\i ProQuest
\i0 . Web. 21 March 2016.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl480\slmult1\pardirnatural
\cf0 Marsden, Jean. 
\i Fatal desire: Women, Sexuality, and the English Stage, 1660-1720. 
\i0 Ithaca, N.Y.: Cornell UP, 2006. Print.\
McCarty, Willard. \'93Knowing: Modeling in Literary Studies.\'94 
\i A Companion to Digital Literary Studies
\i0 , ed. Susan Schreibman and Ray Siemens. Oxford: Blackwell, 2008. N. pag. Web. 27 Jan. 2014.\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 Moretti, Franco. \'93Network Theory, Plot Analysis.\'94 
\i Stanford
\i0  
\i Literary Lab Pamphlets 
\i0 2 (2011): 1-12. Web. 25 Feb 2016.
\fs16 \super \

\fs24 \nosupersub Munns, Jessica. 
\i Restoration Politics and Drama: The Plays of Thomas Otway, 1675-1683
\i0 . Newark: University of Delaware Press, 1995. Print.\
Murphy, Arthur. 
\i The Grecian Daughter: A Tragedy
\i0 . 1772. Ann Arbor, MI: University of Michigan Library, 2011. 
\i Eighteenth Century Collections Online: Text Creation Partnership
\i0 . Web. 20 March 2016.\
Otway, Thomas. \'93Venice Preserved; or a Plot Discovered.\'94 1682. Ed. Jessica Munns. 
\i The Broadview Anthology of Restoration and Early-Eighteenth Century Drama
\i0 . Ed. J. Douglas Canfield. Peterborough, ON: Broadview Press, 2003. 381-426. Print.\
\'97. 
\i Venice preserv'd, or, A plot discover'd.
\i0  1682. Ann Arbor, MI; Oxford (UK): Text Creation Partnership, 2003-01 (EEBO-TCP Phase 1). 
\i Early English Books Online: Text Creation Partnership
\i0 . Web. 24 March 2016.\
\'97. 
\i Venice Preserved: A Tragedy, in Five Acts
\i0 . 1874. Ed. Delphine Lettau. N.p.: Project Gutenbeg, 2010. 
\i Project Gutenberg
\i0 . Web. 18 March 2016.\
Rogers, Katharine M. \'93Feminine Agency and Feminine Values in 
\i Venice Preserved
\i0 : A Response to Elizabeth Gruber.\'94 
\i Connotations
\i0  17.2-3 (2007 / 2008): 197-99. 
\i Academic OneFile
\i0 . 21 March 2016.\
\'97. \'93Masculine and Feminine Values in Restoration Drama: the Distinctive Power of 
\i Venice Preserv\'92d
\i0 .\'94 
\i The English Renaissance and Enlightenment
\i0 . Spec. issue of 
\i Texas Studies in Literature and Language
\i0  27.4 (1985): 390-404. 
\i JSTOR
\i0 . Web. 22 March 2014.\
Rosenthal, Laura. 
\i Infamous Commerce: Prostitution in Eighteenth-Century British Literature and Culture
\i0 . Ithaca, N.Y.: Cornell UP, 2006. Print.}