{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\fi700\sl480\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \'93The feminization of serious drama in this period is tied to the cultural function of theater. Because of women\'92s function as symbols of both domestic and imperial impropriety, any consideration of women in drama must link the representation of women on the stage to the social context in which they appeared and to the moral and often political lessons they presented to the men and women in the audience. These lessons are especially evident in the tragedies\'85 the heroines of tragedy suffer for their sins, real or perceived. Their suffering serves the dual purpose of pleasing and educating the theater audience.\'94 (14)\
\
\'93Although the plays of this period are diverse in form\'85 they are remarkably coherent in their obsession with portraying the woes of women, particularly those women who have, voluntarily or involuntarily, committed a sexual sin. In this way, they can be seen as an outgrowth of the pathetic plays of the 1680s, particularly those of Otway and Banks.\'94 (62)\
\'93She-tragedy reiterates gender as a stable series of binary oppositions: male/female, subject/object, and actor/acted upon, oppositions that supported rather than threatened existing social structures.\'94 (63) \'93women accept rather than challenge their subordinate position within a patriarchal society, choosing\'85 to suffer rather than to act.\'94 (64)\
\'93a case can also be made for including Thomas Otway on this list\'94 (65)\
\
in Venice Preserved \'93attempted rapes often demonstrate the moral degeneracy of those who seek to usurp power\'94 (75)\
\
\'93Belvidera\'92s anguish over her parting from Jaffeir drives her mad and ultimately results in he pathetic death.\'94 (90)\
\
\'93through the image of the suffering woman, she-tragedy provides a comforting ideal of gender relations that offsets the threatening aspects of uncontrolled female sexuality and its related power. Such corrupted and dangerous energy is destroyed by the end of the tragedy, but not before the audience is given a chance to savor the titillation it occasions; it is, in a sense, a way for spectators to have their cake and eat it too.\'94 (99)}