{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\fi700\sl480\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 As Figure 4 shows, 
\i Venice Preserv\'92d
\i0  is less straightforward than 
\i Hamlet
\i0 : Jaffeir, Pierre, and the Duke all have identical levels of {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://7403B987-2821-48A7-9CDF-2F604CD61B95"}}{\fldrslt centrality.}} Each character directly addresses or is addressed by 20 of the 28 other characters in the play, standing at an average of 1.32 degrees of separation from each member of the network. Jaffeir\'92s place on this list does not upset any expectations. Nor does it disrupt our understanding of the play to see Pierre included, given the critical work on Pierre and Jaffeir\'92s homosocial bond as the heart of the play. But to have this pair placed on equal footing not with Belvidera, but with the Duke, who doesn\'92t even have a first name: this calls for closer examination. He may have less to say to each of his connections, but his authority to summon the conspirators for judgment represents significant power. His individual lines, too, follow a conversational pattern reflective of his authority: he is in the position to demand briefly that characters speak, and to receive at length their explanations of themselves. This sets him apart from both Pierre and Renault, who expend lengthy passages of persuasion to drive their conspiracy. Bedamar, the initial leader of the conspiracy, at many points follows the same pattern as the Duke, initiating conversations that are inequitable in his favour, but the Duke\'92s much lower degrees of separation indicates that he has had a much higher rate of success in having his authority recognized across the play\'92s social network.}