{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green238\blue202;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c94500\c83100;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
As Wallace notes in her Preface,\cb3  tackling a historical span of nearly 250 years is both unusual and somewhat risky\cb1  \'93in an age when academics are in- creasingly specialised\'94 (viii). To do so, I would add, is \cb3 especially risky, and yet also especially interesting, when it comes to the study of women\'92s Gothic \'97 an endeavor already torn between the call to historicize and a nagging awareness of continuities that seem to transcend historical difference\cb1 . Wallace\'92s book joins previous studies in showing the richness and endurance of women\'92s Gothic writ- ing, a tradition that runs from Sophia Lee, Ann Radcliffe, Charlotte Smith and Mary Shelley, through the Bront\'ebs and other Victorian women, to such modern figures as Shirley Jackson, Carson McCullers, and Margaret Atwood.\cb3  The very continuity that allows us to call this body of writing a \'93tradition\'94 raises issues of interpretive method: how do we analyze women\'92s writing that, over such a long period of time, repeatedly turns to the same set of conventions \'97 conventions that, moreover, involve female suffering and fear \'97 without collapsing different authors and their varied aesthetic achievements into an essentialist view of gender and into a single narrative of female victimhood? 
\fs24 \cb1 \

\fs26\fsmilli13333 This question has been central to the evolution of the research devoted to women\'92s Gothic. Early work on the so-called \'93Female Gothic\'94 viewed it as a coded articulation of fear, pain, and anger that were specifically female in nature, since they were rooted in the dominant psychic and family structures of a patriarchal society. The mid-1990s witnessed a new wave of studies that warned against the implications of a too-simple link between \'93Gothic\'94 and \'93female\'94; some advocated historicist methods as a way of warding off a reductive essentialism. Having co-edited two of the essay collections in which much of this discussion has taken place, Wallace is well aware of \cb3 the tension between historicist and universalist approaches to women\'92s Gothic\cb1 .
\fs16 \up8 1 
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \up0 She not only addresses the issue at length in Chapter 1, but attempts to contextualize each writer in her turn. The task of allowing room for difference between women writers and their texts by invoking their particular cultural moments is daunting (if not downright impossible) in a book of this scope. What makes it even more difficult is the counter-pull of Wallace\'92s theoretical framework, reliant as it is on Irigaray and the idea of the Clytemnestra myth as representing Western culture\'92s systematic suppression of the feminine. The danger of such a framework is that it offers the horrors of patriarchy as a single, recurrent answer to too many different questions about women writers and their texts. Despite Wallace\'92s attempts to use the idea of myth itself in a historicized sense, this is not a danger that her book manages to evade altogether. While roving over great expanses of geography 
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl160\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs13\fsmilli6667 \cf2 \up8 1 
\fs24 \up0 Wallace and Andrew Smith co-edited a special issue of 
\i Gothic Studies 
\i0 (6/1, May 2004) devoted to women\'92s Gothic, as well as a more recent book, 
\i The Female Gothic: New Direc- tions 
\i0 (2009). These collections extended the rethinking of \'93female Gothic\'94 that began in a special issue of 
\i Women\'92s Writing 
\i0 (1/2, 1994), edited by Robert Miles. \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf2 and history, both in the fictions it discusses and in the literary-historical arc it traces, 
\i Female Gothic Histories 
\i0 does seem to end up too often in the same place. But if the readings Wallace provides in the pieces of her argument are somewhat repetitive, \cb3 the book\'92s ambitious span nevertheless allows her to offer a compelling and thought-provoking whole\cb1 . Precisely because monographs today tend to burrow into particular historical moments, 
\i Female Gothic Histories 
\i0 is both useful and refreshing: it allows the specialist scholar to look outside his or her research niche and \cb3 consider the continuities of theme and form that cut across period boundaries\cb1 . Wallace\'92s corpus is enjoyably diverse. She ventures beyond the novel-centered conventions of criticism to look at Gothic historical short stories \'97 a form that, she notes, was until very recently seen as doubly marginal \'97 and insists on the relevance of reading now-canonical authors such as Gaskell and du Maurier alongside a mass-fiction novelist such as Victoria Holt. The breadth of Wallace\'92s gaze has a potentially revitalizing effect on now-entrenched scholarly axioms that, she implies, limit our understanding of women\'92s Gothic. As a scholar of eighteenth-century literature, I find especially interesting Wallace\'92s call to look beyond (and before) Ann Radcliffe, whose centrality in Gothic criticism may have led to a too-restrictive understanding of what eighteenth-century women did with Gothic materials. Where others have repeatedly focused on the groundbreaking nature of Radcliffe\'92s work, Wallace treats her as being already indebted to a tradition of women\'92s historical fiction that can be traced back, through Sophia Lee, to Madame de La Fayette: \'93if we start . . . from Ann Radcliffe as the beginning of the \'91Female Gothic,\'92\'94 Wallace writes, \'93then we miss crucial elements of the genre\'92s engagement with history\'94 (16). The broader view allows us to see how Radcliffe\'92s particular and idiosyncratic choices \'97 the vague and atmospheric (instead of historical and specific) representation of the past, for example \'97 have come to stand, somewhat misleadingly, for the \'93Female Gothic\'94 as a whole.\uc0\u8232 In the introduction to their 2009 essay collection, Wallace and her co-editor Andrew Smith write that despite \'93or perhaps because of\'94 the critical disagree- ments it has sparked, \'93the Female Gothic remains a fertile field for investiga- tion,\'94 with a \'93capacity to tease out new meanings from canonical texts as well as offering a way to revalue neglected texts\'94 (6). 
\i Female Gothic Histories 
\i0 dem- onstrates the truth of each of these claims. Whatever their area of specialization, scholars will find in it a broad, detailed and lively account of an enduring literary sub-tradition that was created by women, in dialogue with other women, as they negotiated with the past and its representations. 
\fs24 \
}