{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red236\green184\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c94500\c78400\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 TODO: Revise this paragraph so evidence more strongly points to argument\
\
In contrast to this abundance of male-dominated tropes, female-authored tropes are elusive. Instead, in Tracy\'92s model of the genre, the women\'92s Gothic seems to be defined by only four things: libertines (64% female), forced weddings (62% female), sad or pious deaths (61% female), and miniature portraits (61% female). \cb2 [It is easy to start drawing conclusions from these findings, for the binary opposites of the conclusions we drew about Frank.]\cb1  The libertines and miniature portraits in particular, as the most common female motifs, immediately suggest a women\'92s Gothic that is in striking conversation with novels like Jane Austen\'92s, whose ordered and rational novels are nonetheless replete with rakes and miniatures. Or, looking at their prominence in the top ten for each of these tropes, one might be tempted to investigate Regina Maria Roche and Louisa Sidney Stanhope as the unexpected representatives of the women\'92s Gothic. However, the narrow margin of \cb2 [dominance]\cb1  for each motif suggests that defining a genre here may be too hasty. The male motifs represented a variety of elements used by many different men, such that no one author could be responsible for its gendered uptake. These female motifs are far less robust: if we ignore either Roche or Stanhope, we are down to just two female-dominated motifs, and if we ignore both, we are left with zero. When it comes to the inclusion of particular story elements, then, this women\'92s Gothic is outnumbered not just by the men\'92s Gothic but also by the mainstream Gothic.}