{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red206\green187\blue255;\red236\green184\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c84700\c79200\c100000;\cssrgb\c94500\c78400\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 The continuing use of the Female Gothic framework stands in a striking contrast to the dearth of work on the Male Gothic. Even in a context in which men are assumed to be famously outnumbered, the status of \'93male\'94 as a cultural default means their works are \'93unmarked\'94 or assumed to be defined by things other than gender. The Female Gothic is often treated as synonymous with the explained supernatural, or the \'91terror\'92 mode in the terror/horror distinction, but no terminology is used for the \'91unexplained supernatural,\'92 and horror works by men are called horror, rather than Male Gothic. The few explicit identifications of a male mode of writing begin with the female and define the male as its lack or opposite. Ellen Ledoux, for example, in the context of attaching the Female Gothic to \'93the \'91explained supernatural style,\'92\'94, adds a definition for the Male Gothic, \'93in which ghosts, devils and other supernatural phenomena demand a willful suspension of disbelief from the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://9BD9E93C-47E4-404F-83C5-CB7D39CF0DBB"}}{\fldrslt reader.\'94}} David Richter provides definitions based on plot structures: \'93The \'91female Gothic\'92 is \'85 a melodrama arousing sympathy and suspense through the unwarranted persecution of an innocent. The \'91male Gothic\'92 is a punitive tragedy\'85in which we are made both to desire and to expect the condign punishment of the central {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://4F6C4235-528A-474C-A1CF-1A5B108053F1"}}{\fldrslt figure.\'94}} \cb2 [TODO: Robert Miles\'92 definition] [TODO: more definitions of the male gothic (or places that fail to define it) \'97 like that really weird Jungian book I found]\cb1  What none of these definitions of a male Gothic include, however, is a link between the literary techniques and the authors\'92 gendered experience.\cb3  [I don\'92t include this either, but I know I don\'92t include it; that is the \'93future work\'94 this article calls for.] [Just as I follow Ledoux, others will need to follow me.]}