{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf810
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\fi700\sl480\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Published originally in 1932!\
\
Ch. 1: largely about readership, esp. circulating libraries\
Ch. 2: the four 'schools' of the novel building on early 18thC masters: the Richardsonian, the Fielding...eqsue, Smollett's picaresque, and Sterne's wanderings. Tompkins discusses a really wide range of popular novels and how they fit into each category. "the accepted themes were repeated in a shallower tone and overlaid with all the romantic incidents of disguise, abduction, lost heirs and mistaken identity, which had been for hundreds of years the story-teller's stock in trade." (57) --> contains a problematic assumption that the 'goal' of the novel is to become realist ("In spite of critical admonitions, the average novelist paid, on the whole, very little attention to the probable, and the novel in consequence slipped farther away from reality, as though a window on to the other world had been changed to a magic lantern" (57) -- but we can reject this assumption (on the basis of our more modern criticism) without rejecting the observation that 'fantastic' (Gothic) plot elements do not fundamentally alter the societally conventional structure of the novel.\
- seems to move into discussion of sensational novel; "Rape, jealous frenzy and murder are staple ingredients of these novels, and the general method is cumulative." (61)\
- "Two points have some interest in connection with the sensationalism of the eighteenth century. In the first place there is, on the whole, little insistence upon physical pain... Secondly, one notes the extraordinary pervasiveness through all grades of the novel of the theme of incest." (62)\
Ch. 3: in 70s and 80s, 'enjoying' a novel a problematic way to evaluate it; novels meant to be didactic.\
p. 78 - duelling unpopular as novelistic topic b/c slightly disapproved; gaming & intrigue safer. "Gaming is one of the women's subjects." (79) - actually just a 55/45 split in favour of women}