{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red252\green111\blue207;\red252\green111\blue207;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c100000\c54098\c84731;\cssrgb\c100000\c54098\c84731;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 My \cf2 methods\cf0  emphasize the continuities between computational approaches to literature and the the venerable tradition of archival bibliographical research. Heather Love has notably turned to sociological microanalysis as a model for 'thin description' close-but-not-deep reading methods; I employ qualitative computational modelling as another method which seeks the same goals. Love emphasizes thin description as not just \'93fine-grained\'94 but \'93exhaustive\'94 (and possibly {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://ACD6C7A7-80E4-4C53-AC9B-B201BE42B3C4"}}{\fldrslt exhausting)}} but with the reward that \'93one could\'97at least ideally\'97pay equal attention to every aspect \'85 and record it {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://C109E518-B640-4049-B277-95536C16C24F"}}{\fldrslt faithfully.\'94}}  I add to this that good descriptions offer themselves up for reuse and recombination, by rendering somehow graspable that which they describe. Downplaying the importance of close interpretation, Love says that \'93Good descriptions \'85 account for the real variety that is already {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://F8EF5A73-C106-4F99-8F39-5C677F240F8C"}}{\fldrslt there.\'94}} It is the work of accounting for real variety that both bibliography and computation demand: the system must have a way to cope with odd cases. \cf3 In the case of computational methods, code that \cf2 [\cf3 encounters an \'93exception\'94 without preparation\cf2 ]\cf3  will simply refuse to run. A bibliography can be more generous \'97 one can still physically print a book that contains \cf2 omissions\cf3  \'97 but the systematic presentation of bibliography information will leave obvious gaps if the bibliographer does not, e.g., provide a name in the designated space for \'93author\'94.\cf2  \cf0 Even if one simply \cf2 skips over the oddity\cf0 , or adds an explanatory footnote or a comment within one\'92s code, \cf2 [one must make a choice about how to proceed]; \cf0 outliers must be acknowledged and grappled with.\cf2  \cf0 I use computational interventions to interrogate the literary models represented in two older bibliographies. In so doing, I argue, I demonstrate the utility of qualitative description, as a promising avenue toward revisiting older scholarship and re-forging connections with the work that has come before.}