{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 TODO: Revise this paragraph so evidence more strongly points to argument:\
\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\i \cf0 The \'93terror\'94 tag, as expected, is less strongly defined by its motifs. Several motifs do appear with slightly higher frequency within \'93terror\'94 works than in the baseline, but generally only by a few percentage points. 43 motifs appear in \'93horror\'94 works with a 20% or greater increase in frequency over their baseline prevalence, but not one motif crosses that threshold for \'93terror.\'94 If we examine the top of the \'93terror\'94 list anyway, the tag shows an anemic increase in fainting (19% more than baseline), suicide mentions (18%), female fainting (18%), and secret doors (18%) compared to the overall corpus, but all of these mostifs appear more in \'93horror\'94 works than they do in \'93terror.\'94 Fainting, suicide, and secret doors might allow us to spot terror or horror Gothics against a background of sentimental Gothics or other modes, but they are not useful in defining a terror/horror divide. We can more directly seek that distinction by comparing \'93terror\'94 only to \'93horror,\'94 but from this view too, however, there are fewer motifs, with weaker correlations. Whereas there were three motifs which appeared four or five times more often in horror works than terror works, there are no motifs which distinguish terror that strongly. One motif does appear with triple frequency in terror works compared to horror: \'93speech, unfinished, on deathbed.\'94 \'a0Appearing a little more than twice as often are \'93good abbess\'94, and \'93good clergyman,\'94 and a little less than twice are \'93attempted or contemplated suicide\'94 and \'93lunacy.\'94 None of these motifs drew our attention when we examined Tracy alone, because they are not strongly gendered. It is potentially fruitful to see them distinguished now, and consider them as potential markers of a terror Gothic as distinct from a women\'92s Gothic. But they ultimately reaffirm that the terror Gothic itself is simply the Gothic mainstream.}