{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red26\green26\blue26;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c13333\c13333\c13333;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl220\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 The most vital problem for you to tackle can be found in the methods section, which needs significant work to make your process much less opaque. Getting this right is crucial to the success of the whole paper. In its current form, your methods section assumes it is self-explanatory, which it is not. We are all victims to this in our own ways, because we know what we did, and writing a good methods section is a skill in & of itself. Methods sections are designed to help 1) the reader understand what you did to interpret the output and 2) to make it possible for someone else to replicate this approach for their own purposes. Define your terms, your corpus, and give details, so the reader can follow the argument of the findings and their importance. Specifying the software and classification schema by which you produce these graphs and what choices that entails will be essential too. Walk your reader through methods section to slowly, carefully laying out the approach you will take. Don\'92t rush this; focus on making the non-expert comfortable with the steps you will take.\
\
This is not to say that even if the authors choose to follow this second framing, that the methods section can stand as it is. If the paper is reframed to be about Shakespeare criticism, then the methods section will need to be revised in a different way than I suggest above. In this case, 
\b the authors cannot expect the reader to have any familiarity with network theory or analysis
\b0  (as might be expected if they position the paper for a primarily DH audience). The specifics of their methods need to be explained in exacting detail: exactly how edges are assigned (is it, for example, enough for two characters to be alive and on stage at the same time?), how edges are weighted (the methods section suggests it is by number of interactions, while on p11, the authors suggest that it is based on the number of words in the speech), how the networks were laid out (what a force-directed layout is and why the authors chose the one that they selected) and how they derived their feature lists. And, as their project takes the second step of applying these feature to a model, they need to discuss the process of quantitative modeling text (perhaps with some reference to Ted Underwood\'92s or Andrew Piper\'92s respective 2018 books), and describe in detail the models that they elected to use (what is an SVM vs a na\'efve Bays) and why( why choose these two over, for example, a discriminant function analysis, a logistic regression or a mixture model?).}