{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf810
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid2\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\i\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
English and British Fiction 1750\'961820
\i0 . Ed. by Peter Garside and Karen O\'92Brien. (The Oxford History of the Novel in English, 2.) Oxford: Oxford University Press. 2015. 668 p. \'a395. isbn 978 0 19 957480 3 \
While by no means all of the 3,367 novels that Raven\'92s opening chapter records as being first published in Britain between 1750 and 1819 receive a mention, the range of different works covered in this volume is extremely impressive. The index records references to fiction by over 220 different late eighteenth and early nineteenth-century authors, as well as to numerous anonymous works. \
p.3:  because there are thirty-three essays, the volume can examine a significant number of trends and varieties of fiction as well as contexts and issues, giving attention to exactly the kinds of things that derail a simple narrative of progress.  -- Highlighted Apr 22, 2017\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	1.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
p.3: The first part, \'91Book Production and Distribution\'92, features the aforementioned essay by Raven on production; a fluent and interesting essay by Garside on authorship; and a clear-eyed account of lending and circulation by David Allan\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl1\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
James Raven\'92s essay on \'93Production\'94 notes, for example, that during the 1780s, many novels claimed the in uence of Frances Burney\'97far more than named Henry Fielding or Tobias Smollett as models\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	2.	}p.3: The second part\'97and by far the longest\'97covers \'91Major Authors and Traditions\'92. Despite this title, a focus on traditions predominates.\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl1\cf2 {\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}Betty Schellenberg\'92s nuanced claims regarding the versions of female heroism written into being by Bluestocking writers, and engaging with Vivien Jones\'92 masterly chapter historicizing Jane Austen\'92s \'91allusive intelligence\'92\
{\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}p.3:  e \'93Major Authors and Traditions\'94 section gathers fourteen essays, with ten focusing on subgenres.  e remaining four essays are devoted to the authors that the editors consider major in this period: Smollett, Laurence Sterne, Jane Austen, and Scott. -- Highlighted Apr 22, 2017\
{\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}p.4: Smollett\'92s return to the foreground is evidently made possible by the collection\'92s particular scope and coverage, and the inclusion of ramble  fiction alongside his work brings an enormously popular (though o en neglected) group of novels back into our picture  Other subgenres that used to be considered outside the mainstream of the history of the novel also get brought forward, such as the national tale. -- Highlighted Apr 22, 2017\
{\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}p.4: Deidre Lynch\'92s essay on \'93Early Gothic Novels and the Belief in Fiction\'94 illustrates why this is important. Noting that gothic has always been understood to run counter to the novelistic tradition of realism, Lynch argues that early gothic actually trained readers in how to read all types of  ction, thereby supporting traditions it has been thought to problematize.Similarly, the group of three essays beginning with \'93Sentimental Fiction of the 1760s and 1770s,\'94 continuing with \'93Bluestocking Women and Rational Female Fiction,\'94 through \'93 e Novel of Sensibility in the 1780s\'94 nicely complicates the idea of sensibility as dominating the  ction of these years by situating rational  ction by women right in the middle of sentiment.reminds us that the novel is a capacious and complicated genre that cannot be reduced to a simple linear narrative. -- Highlighted Apr 22, 2017\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	3.	}p.3: The third part of the volume, \'91Generic Variations and Narrative Structures\'92, contains four essays that diverge from those in the previous section principally in their temporal reach. -- Highlighted Apr 22, 2017\
{\listtext	4.	}p.3: The fourth part, \'91Contexts\'92, includes only three essays.  \
{\listtext	5.	}p.3: By contrast, the fifth part, \'91Alternative Forms of Fiction\'92, serves a key role as a welcome corrective to the dominance of the lengthy novel in considerations of fiction in the period. --         
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
magazine fiction (by Gillian Hughes), the tale (Anthony Jarrells), children\'92s literature (M. O. Grenby) and the novel\'92s connections with the stage (Gillian Russell) 
\fs24 \cf2        \
\pard\tx940\tx1440\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl1\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The only thing that might profitably have been added to this part is a consideration of the novel in relation to poetry, which remained a serious competitor in the realm of narrative storytelling, was practised by many of those who wrote novels and was woven through a great deal of the prose fiction published in the period.  -- Highlighted Apr 22, 2017\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	6.	}p.4: The volume\'92s final section, \'91Assimilation and Cultural Interchanges\'92, contains Michael Gamer\'92s excellent chapter of two halves on the novel in reviews and collections; Stephen Colclough\'92s typically searching thoughts on reading practices; and welcome contributions by Wil Verhoeven and Jenny Mander on global contexts and foreign imports -- Highlighted Apr 22, 2017         p.4: Robert Miles\'92 fascinating chapter on Gothic and anti-Gothic -- Highlighted Apr 22, 2017\
\pard\tx560\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
primarily a scrupulous and exemplary work of historicism, grounded in the circumstances of the period defined by its title dates. Its contributors do not generally focus a great deal of attention on making unequivocal claims regarding the aesthetic quality of the works that they examine. \
p.4: Gender, too, is present throughout the essays, as are women writers, rather than being cordoned o  in one or two essaysseveral of the contributors mention it-narratives, ramble novels, and epistolary fiction, even though each of those is the subject of a separate essay -- Highlighted Apr 22, 2017\
Despite the numbers of novelists to which it directs new attention, this history often tacitly perpetuates existing hierarchies of value, rather than defining these or challenging them on the behalf of the works it reclaims. \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 p.3: Histories of the eighteenth-century British novel have nearly always sought to explain how and why the novel transformed itself over the course of the century, and, as a result, these histories nearly always end up offering a teleological and selective account. This collection employs several strategies to avoid such a problem -- Highlighted Apr 22, 2017\
\pard\tx560\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 While it is possible that a subsequent history of the novel might differentiate itself from this one by taking an explicitly aesthetic turn, it is also possible that the approaches pursued so rewardingly in this volume might be taken further with digital technologies. \
It will be interesting to see whether by the time the next large-scale history of the novel is attempted, a digital repository containing reliable versions of these texts has been created\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Clifford Siskin argues for seeing the history of the novel in the eighteenth century as a complex process of emergence rather than a triumphal rise. \
p.5: Suggesting \'93emergence\'94 as a more useful term than \'93rise\'94 to describe the genre\'92s history, especially in the context of scholarship that highlights new data and a multitude of texts, Siskin brings in the idea of \'93novelism\'94 from his earlier work to argue that it was this novelism\'97 discourse of and about the novel\'97that ultimately generated the idea of Literature.\
In this book, the history of the novel looks rather like a Pieter Bruegel the Elder painting, packed with individuals, some in the foreground and some in the background, but all presented with great detail and all, in their di erent actions, contributing to the overall e ect of the image. And it is full of life and activity.  is feels right: the history of the novel is not a uni ed narrative, but precisely the kind of diversi ed picture presented in OHNE. -- Highlighted Apr 22, 2017\
}