{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf810
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs122\fsmilli61333 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\dn32 T
\fs24 \cf2 \up0 HE HISTORY OF POPULAR FICTION 
\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 in the Romantic period is often associated with the careers of two entrepreneur-publishers, William Lane and Henry Colburn. The prolific output of novels by Lane, and his successor A. K. Newman, is described in considerable detail in Dorothy Blakey's 
\i The Minerva Press, 1790-1820 
\i0 (London, 1939). Colburn's promin- ence as a publisher of fashionable novels in the 1820s has also been sketched out in Matthew Whiting Rosa's 
\i The Silver-Fork School 
\i0 (New York, 1936)\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 With issues of this kind in mind, in the last few years I have been constructing a comprehensive file of novels published between 1780 and 1830: employing sources contemporary with the period\'97circulating library catalogues, William Bent's 
\i London Catalogue, 
\i0 listings in reviews \'97 alongside more modern library catalogues and bibliographical compilations. The result is a collection of almost three thousand original titles (reprints, miscellanies, and shorter tales are generally excluded), with in most instances a note of the publisherofthefirstedition. 
\fs24 \

\fs29\fsmilli14667 Notunexpectedly,theresultsservetoconfirm several presuppositions about the Minerva Press and Colburn 
\fs24 \
 Lane's rise to pre-eminence coincides with a large upsurge in titles in the late 1780s, and the Minerva's dominance in this respect continued almost unabated until the 1820s. In all but three years (1807, 1808, and 1818) Lane and/or Newman were responsible for at least 25% of new titles \'97 and on two occasions, in 1795 and 1801, Lane actually claimed more than half of the annual total. Colburn's contribution begins with a trickle in 1806, and develops only slightly in numerical terms until the floodgates open after the financial crisis of 1825/26. From then to the end of the decade Colburn effectively replaced the Minerva by publishing at least 25% of new titles, culminating with exactly half (thirty-four out of sixty-eight) in 1829. Other publishers \'97 for example, Hookham in the last two decades of the eighteenth century, or Longmans early in the nineteenth \'97took a clear stake in fiction, but only one can be said to have dominated in a way comparable to Lane and Colburn. From 1807-08 J. F. Hughes of Wigmore Street, Cavendish Square, claimed his own quarter share of titles, outstripping in both years the Minerva Press, which was experiencing something of an ebb in its fortunes during the transfer of control from Lane to Newman.\

\fs29\fsmilli14667 If a handful of titles on the border between fiction and scandalous memoir are included, the number so far noted of novels published by Hughes, \'85 totals exactly one hundred \
p.17: The tide of taste, likewise, was beginning to turn. Hannah More's Coelebs in Search ofa Wife (1808), which had reached twelve editions by the end of 1809, signalled the start of an evangelical assault on 'fashionable' life and literature. -- Highlighted Apr 22, 2017\
p.19: In Hughes's output it is possible to trace an accelerating movement, sometimes involving the same authors, from sentimental and Radcliffian pot-boilers, though anglicized schauerroman and Monk-like horror, to 'fashionable' anecdote and scandal. At the same time, it is important to bear in mind that Gothic and sentimental novels continued as mainstays of his production to the end. Of sixty-four titles examined at first hand, the majority fall in almost equal proportions into the broad categories of sentimental, Gothic, and scandal fiction. The list is completed by a smattering of 'historical' novels (though the distinction between these and the Gothic and/or sentimental is sometimes blurred), and two late pseudo-Irish works. -- Highlighted Apr 22, 2017
\fs24 \
}