{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf810
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red38\green38\blue38;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c14902\c14902\c14902;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\fi700\sl480\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sa120\pardirnatural

\f1\fs22 \cf2 \'93As digital humanists have adopted visualization tools in their work, they have borrowed methods developed for the graphical display of information in the natural and social sciences. These tools carry with them assumptions of knowledge as observer-independent and certain, rather than observer codependent and interpretative.\'94\
\'93But, I will argue, such graphical tools are a kind of intellectual Trojan horse, a vehicle through which assumptions about what constitutes information swarm with potent force. These assumptions are cloaked in a rhetoric taken wholesale from the techniques of the empirical sciences that conceals their epistemological biases under a guise of familiarity.\'94\
\'93Rendering observation (the act of creating a statistical, empirical, or subjective account or image) as if it were the same as the phenomena observed collapses the critical distance between the phenomenal world and its interpretation\'94\
\'93This requires first and foremost that we reconceive all data as capta. Differences in the etymological roots of the terms data and capta make the distinction between constructivist and realist approaches clear. Capta is "taken" actively while data is assumed to be a "given" able to be recorded and observed.\'94\
\'93the sheer power of the graphical display of "information visualization" (and its novelty within a humanities community newly enthralled with the toys of data mining and display) seems to have produced a momentary blindness among practitioners who would never tolerate such literal assumptions in textual work.\'94\
\'93Charts use simple (if often misleading) geometric forms that lend themselves to legible comparison of values, proportions, or the exhibition of state changes across time.\'94\
\'93They render quantitative relations with a transparency that seems natural\'94\
\'93the rendering of statistical information into graphical form gives it a simplicity and legibility that hides every aspect of the original interpretative framework\'94\
\'93The graphical force conceals what the statistician knows very well \'97 that no "data" preexist their parameterization\'94\
\'93a humanistic approach to the qualitative display of graphical information\'94\
\'93the basic categories of supposedly quantitative information, the fundamental parameters of chart production, are already interpreted expressions. But they do not present themselves as categories of interpretation, riven with ambiguity and uncertainty, because of the representational force of the visualization as a "picture" of "data".\'94\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sa120\pardirnatural

\b \cf2 \'93The ordering and arrangement of elements within a chart create another level of information, relational information
\b0 \cf2 . Relational information is graphically produced \'96 the ordering of elements by size, by color, by alphabetical order, by texture, shape or other feature happens in graphical space. The resulting arrangement has a semantic value produced by features of proximity, grouping, orientation, apparent movement, and other graphical effects.\'94\
\'93For instance, what is a novel, what does "published" mean in this context (date of appearance, editing, composition, acquisition, review, distribution), and how was the "year" determined. Statistical methods come into play after these decisions have been made, counting objects whose identity was established by interpretative decisions.\'94\
\'93the subjective display of humanistic phenomena can be applied across the domains with which we are concerned at at least four basic levels of interpretation or knowledge production.1. Modelling phenomenological experience in the making of humanities (data as capta, primary modeling, the representation of temporal and spatial experience);2. Modeling relations among humanities documents i.e. discourse fields (a different metric is needed to understand dates on diplomatic documents in the spring of 1944 than one needed to constitute understanding of those dated to the same period of the spring of 1950 etc.);3. Modeling the representations of temporality and spatiality that are in humanities documents (narrative is the most obvious);4. Modeling the interpretation of any of the above (depicting or graphing the performative quality of interpretation).\'94\
\'93In some circumstances (the example of the bar chart given earlier that was displaying information about gender, nations, and populations) ambiguity merely requires a higher order level of complexity in the model, so that apparent "certainties" are qualified by variables and nuances that can be specified in mathematical terms. But the idea of capta as fundamentally codependent, constituted relationally, between observer and observed phenomena, is fundamentally different from the concept of data created as an observerindependent phenomena.\'94\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\fi700\sl480\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
The consumability of eye-candy-like, data-driven visualizations that appear in public art, private galleries, and published compendia is evidence of their seductive success as ideological instruments. Halpern wants us to reflect upon the implications of such aesthetic legitimation and ways we might resist the force of data displays that are integrated into the management infrastructure of technologized culture. (538)}