{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf810
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red38\green38\blue38;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c19804\c19804\c19804;}
\deftab720
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\fi700\sl480\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Literary scholars grappling with methods of non-symptomatic reading often glancingly reference computational methods, but equally often do so without engaging at length with the ways that these methods do or do not align with non-computational ways of reading. Computational models of literary texts offer interpretive meaning not because computers are imbued with a unique empiricial objectivity, but because they facilitate an alternate way of attending to humanistic concerns. The difference is one of degree, not fundamental kind: indeed, resistance to symptomatic reading is itself founded in an awareness that all literary interpretation relies, in some way, upon modelling the text in question. Even a paragraph may easily exceed our ability to recall and respond to its entirety as a whole: as Freedgood and Schmitt note, even as we read a novel we are substituting \'93a conceptual \'91gist\'92\'94 for its particularities (9). Schmitt and Freedgood respond by advocating a method of reading which refuses to gloss over any detail, treating each word as a potential site of intense meaning. Distant reading, particularly as practiced by Franco Moretti, responds to the same problem by treating no word as a site of meaning, relocating the meaning to the overall pattern of the work\'92s ebbs and flows. Despite the opposition embedded in the terminology of \'93distant\'94 versus \'93close\'94 reading, however, computational modelling offers a rich toolset to achieve the attention to the \'93variegated\'94 dissonances of literary texts which Heather Love\'92s discussion of \'93thin description\'94 argues for (378). Moreover, computational modelling almost guarantees the experience of surprise that Eve Kosofsky Sedgwick considers a prerequisite for the escape of paranoid reading, a particularly pernicious way of reading symptomatically. Taking Olive Schreiner\'92s 
\i The Story of an African Farm
\i0  as its object of study, this essay will model an approach to interpretation which takes its cues from iterative prototyping.\
\
Passing between Victorian novel of manners and long stretches of allegory, political and religious philosophy, the novel as a whole presents a rich object that resists a singular interpretive approach. The appeal of a model, then, is that it can somehow respond to, rather than anticipate, the rich variation of the novel. Willard McCarty defines modelling in all fields as a \'93\cf3 consciously simplifying act of interpretation\'94 which aims to \'93make tractable or manipulable what the modeller regards as interesting\'94 (n.pag); we must define from the outset both what we regard as interesting, how our simplifications operate permissibly to illuminate those interesting aspects, and why these elements could not be tractable in other ways.\
 In the case of 
\i \cf3 The Story of an African Farm,
\i0 \cf3  I turn my attention to the seemingly basic question of who is present, when, and with whom. Like nearly all features of a novel, these appearances and disappearances are not readily tractable in other ways because of the distorted prominence that individual scenes or traits are given in our memories.\cf2 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\fi700\sl480\slmult1\partightenfactor0
\cf3  I hypothesized that Waldo provides an emotional baseline against which the more traditionally plotted story of Lyndall and Em operates, and sought to discover whether such a thing was modelable.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\fi700\sl480\slmult1\partightenfactor0
\cf2 By entering with a hypothesis, I set myself up for a surprise. The initial driving question is necessary, in order to decide what to make the model itself sensitive to, but the actual answer is terrifyingly lacking in a guaranteed meaning.  Sometimes it is a specific hypothesis that is disproved, something like \'93subterranean passages are largely the province of female writers in the early Gothic\'94; in these cases, it can still be very exciting to be surprised with the discovery that \'93subterranean passages are largely the province of male writers\'94. But one is also at risk of finding null results to such hypotheses as \'93subgenres can be detected by these means\'94 or \'93social networks will be comprehensible.\'94 McCarty is quite sanguine that, \'93however unwelcome surprises may be to granting agencies,\'94 \'93failure to give us what we expect is by far the most important result\'94: the understanding is only usefully 
\i new
\i0 , by definition, if we did not know it when we started (n. pag.). McCarty provides encouragement to design models that are likely to be \'93fruitful,\'94 by which he means, focusing intense time and energy on experiments that are likely to be surprising, often unpleasantly. In encouraging us to design for failure, McCarty presents modelling in a way that renders it an alternative to paranoid reading. Sedgwick argues that paranoid readings,  which \'93requires that bad news be always already known\'94 (130), minimizes negative affect but also rules out the pursuit of positive affect as a potential goal. In seeking alternatives to paranoid reading, she further argues that bad surprises must be possible for good surprises to be meaningful. For Sedgwick, this means approaching texts without the assumption that they are always already going to reveal horrors, in order to allow reparative affective to emerge instead. In modelling, the potential for surprise enters not when we are assessing what something means, but even before then, when we are determining what it is, and whether we\'92ve gotten a good look at it.\
It is in this embrace of surprising failure that the computational humanist, far from bearing the shining light of empiricism from the privileged realm of the sciences, must always be prepared to discover that either the way you modelled was wrong, or the thing you thought was wrong. Research-through-modelling requires a constant suspension of I-don\'92t-know-yet. It also requires, as McCarty notes, a \'93a forbidding amount of 
\i Sitzfleisch
\i0 \'94: unglamorous stretches of time spent persevering through monotonous tasks (n. pag.). The simple appeal of a computational model, after all, is that it may be exhaustive: computer memory can store more than human memory, and can evaluate the \'93whole\'94 thing at once. It is of course impossible to see a whole whole, but in attempting to define a way of being exhaustive, this method may permit the visibility of a whole part. Moretti has used the metaphor of an X-ray, which occludes the many details of soft tissues and organs to reveal the bones (4). But despite the rhetoric of revelation, the key skill that the scholar provides in these situations is more usually patience than brilliance. Producing, for example, a detailed breakdown of which characters co-occupy the \'91narrative present\'92 of 
\i Story of an African Farm
\i0  (Figure 1) might easily take forty-five minutes per chapter. But this twenty hour task of writing down who is there and who is not, despite appearing on its face to require no intellectual engagement, in fact relies on very human interpretations which would take far more than twenty hours of a skilled computer scientist to approximate. These operations are easily concealed\'97 Moretti is often frustratingly closemouthed about the 
\i hows
\i0  of his choices\'97  but we can borrow \'93methodology\'94 sections from the sciences: not because the sciences have privileged access to objectivity and truth, but because these attempts to account for our operations usefully expose the limits of the conclusions we draw. By addressing honestly the limits of our guesses, and by refusing either to conceal or glamorize the work of research, the operations of the critic may be made comprehensible and replicable.\
\
The process of modelling and iteration, then, becomes fruitful when it forces a researcher to, in some way, 
\i account for
\i0  everything that happens within a given domain. In this instance, rather than making a map and then journeying back to delve deeper into a separate object, the process of modelling is one of travelling more and more carefully over the graspable features of that object \'97 using the text as a guide to the absences in the map, and examining critically the map\'92s increasingly complex surface\
A model, especially a visual one, then, attains its force not by cleanly unifying its subject in an elegant system, but by rendering tractable, in some fashion, \'93the real variety that is already there\'94 (Love) in its most obvious features.}