{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf810
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c99997\c99999;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;
}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Philosophical Fictions and \'91Jacobin\'92 Novels in the 1790s
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf4 \cb1 This essay on the novel of ideas in the 1790s investigates the sometimes conflicting goals pursue by the \'91Jacobin\'92 novelists\'97figures such as Mary Wollstonecraft, William Godwin, and Mary Hays\'97and also charts their characteristic preoccupations with the proper relations between reason and passion and mind and body. Revamping the Enlightenment tradition of the conte philosophique, these supporters of the Revolution in France and political reform in Britain advocated a newly ambitious species of novel capable of building bridges between the discursive domains of fiction and political theory. These novelists also set out to claim the power over readers\'92 emotions they found in sentimental fiction\'92s stories of suffering individuals. At the same time, contrariwise, they aimed to assemble comprehensive accounts of the social system\'97of \'91things as they are\'92, in Godwin\'92s phrase\'97and touted their commitment to the promulgation of universal, impersonal truth. 
\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \

\f1\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf4 \cb1 When Godwin read Emma Courtney in draft and urged Hays to beef up its love story and so conform better to novelistic convention, she parried his criticism with a question: \'91may there not be philosophical romance?\'92
\fs21\fsmilli10667 \cf4 \up10 37 
\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf4 \up0 Hays\'92s question involves the conditions of possibility for the very fictional form that she, Godwin, and their friends were seeking to invent. It signals the difficulty of their task, the recalcitrance of the prevailing understandings of the office of the novel and prevailing ways of ordering the relations between reason and desire, that the novelists so often defer to the future and future readers the recognition of this new form. These memoirists address themselves not to their contemporaries but to unknown interlocutors in the future\'97Caleb, for instance, to a \'91posterity\'92 that might render him the \'91justice which [his] contemporaries refuse\'92 (5)\'97or to the next generation\'97in Emma Courtney, to an adopted son, on the verge of recapitulating the book\'92s story of romantic abjection with another Emma; in Wrongs of Woman, to an infant daughter who may or may not be alive. History teaches us that, in the event, the generation that succeeded these novelists\'92 generation, retreating from the political engagement of the Revolutionary era, thwarted their hope that readers might come along whose response to their books would take the form of a political programme. In tracing these books\'92 passions, ambivalences, and bold experimentation, this essay has tried to suggest why a twenty-first-century audience might wish to fill that role itself. 
\fs24 \
}