{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;
\csgenericrgb\c100000\c99997\c99999;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\fi960\sl120\slmult1\slminimum760

\f0\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
By turning to the late eighteenth-century Gothic, and particularly the troublesome category of \'93the female Gothic\'94, I examine a mass of books that have been vaguely disreputable since they were first published{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://BD03130E-7C24-4382-A08C-5260434973AB"}}{\fldrslt .}} At its inception and for most of its literary history, criticism of Gothic emotional excess or implausible machinery generally went hand-in-hand with dismissals of the genre as unserious due to its perceived alignment with women. In the 1980s, feminist critics like Juliann Fleenor enabled the \'93Female Gothic\'94, defined as Gothic works \'93written and consistently read by {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://3C7B7FBE-B17A-4F68-BF79-2FDE32FDCB19"}}{\fldrslt women\'94,}} to stand as a worthy object of study regardless of the individual works\'92 literary qualities due to their direct relationships to a patriarchal paradigm and their ability \'93to express the conflict for which patriarchy has no {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://6591CBB0-40B6-420B-81CA-D7AB70322A72"}}{\fldrslt name\'94.}} Contemporary critics have turned their attention from relationships between women and their world to relationships between texts. This shift is exemplified in Robert Miles\'92s sophisticated reading of Ann Radcliffe and Matthew Lewis\'92s works as making use of both \'93Female Gothic\'94 and \'93Male Gothic\'94 \'93narrative {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://06E00D62-B12E-43D2-B36B-2CB79F593B51"}}{\fldrslt grammar\'94.}} Any number of definitions for male and female Gothics are available. [
\i Robert
\i0  
\i Miles\'92 definition of male/female gothics here.
\i0 ] David Richter provides definitions based on plot structures: \'93\cb1 The \'91female Gothic\'92 is \'85 a melodrama arousing sympathy and suspense through the unwarranted persecution of an innocent. The \'91male Gothic\'92 is a punitive tragedy\'85in which we are made both to desire and to expect the condign punishment of the central {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://2CCE59E9-3BBE-4764-9747-2D99B63C8451"}}{\fldrslt figure.\'94}}\cb3  Even Barbara Benedict\'92s \'93\'91Male\'92 and \'91Female\'92 Novels?\'94, which questions the premise of gender division in its title, refers with assurance to \'93\cb1 the subgenre of the female Gothic, which emphasized the uncertainties of perception that heroines suffer in an obscure, dangerous, patriarchal {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://61E92340-983C-4D6A-8B00-B6BEE5FCB1C5"}}{\fldrslt world\'94\cb3 .}}\cb3  My interest is in something less fine-grained: not the exemplary literary aesthetic of a Female Gothic, but the popular phenomenon of a 
\i women\'92s
\i0  Gothic. 
\fs32 \cb1 Over the course of three literary experiments, in which I model the early Gothic novel by means of bibliographic data, I ask whether the hundreds of women writing Gothic novels wrote observably different books than the hundreds of men doing the same.\cf4 \cb5  In doing so, \cb1 I find that \cf2 men\'92s and women\'92s schools do indeed exist, but that they do not map neatly to a set of female/male terror/horror Radcliffe/Lewis binaries, and that both gendered schools are dwarfed by a non-gendered Gothic mainstream. }