{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;
\csgenericrgb\c100000\c99997\c99999;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Having declared an interest in eighteenth century novels and bibliographic research, Peter Garside and James Raven\'92s monumental 
\i \cf2 \cb3 The English Novel, 1770\'961829
\i0 \cf2 \cb3  immediately demands consideration. \cf4 \cb5 Lee Erickson aptly called it \'93magnificent\'94 for its {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://B7EE4911-A573-47F2-9DDF-CB91B3108C90"}}{\fldrslt scope}}. \cf2 \cb3 But is is Garside\'92s scope which works against this project; instead, I will use two earlier bibliographies, by Ann Tracy and Frederick Frank, which are more partial, qualitative, and idiosyncratic \'97 features which may not recommend a bibliography as a general reference, but which make them rich subjects for modelling. Both works\'92 basic bibliographical data is duplicated in {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://D9C996DE-912F-43E4-BFF9-9816DE4693D3"}}{\fldrslt Garside,}} but both also offer substantial qualitative descriptions of the works they list, including summaries of their contents. Ann Tracy indexes 208 works from the years 1753-{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://AC3EFCF8-FF20-4525-B6F7-FEA05A70A49B"}}{\fldrslt 1857,}} of which 103 are by female authors, 95 by male, and only 10 unknown. Frederick Frank indexes 499 works published in the years 1753 to 1835 (with one outlier by Beckford not published until 1912). 215 of Frank\'92s authors are female, 156 male, and 128 unknown. Because each bibliographer excludes some works which are included by the other, they provide information about 529 unique texts, but only 178 works are indexed in both bibliographies. \'a0Both show substantially higher counts of female authorship, and lower counts of anonymous authorship, than were typical of novels as a {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://23B379F6-CD1F-4650-B1C4-E1196F981248"}}{\fldrslt whole}}. This over-representation of women might be selection bias, or it might reflect some underlying reality to the period\'92s assumption that women wrote Gothics; this paper won\'92t answer that question, but will instead statistically normalize raw book counts.}