{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c99997\c99999;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
A men\'92s Gothic is more elusive in Frank\'92s model. Like in Tracy, the men\'92s tags generally apply only to very few novels, reflecting a minor tradition. Unlike in Tracy, there are very few of these minor men\'92s tags. The ones that do exist reinforce the conclusions we drew more strongly based on Tracy\'92s model. Men outnumber women in the \'93Germanic\'94 tag (which encompasses \'93German\'94, \'93Germanic\'94, \'93Schauerroman\'94, \'93Rauberroman\'94, and \'93Ritterroman\'94) \'97 of these 29 Germanic Gothics, 18 are by men (62%). \'93Horror\'94, too, is disproportionately male: 42% of \'93horror\'94 works are by men, a porportion that is solidly above their baseline 31%, though not astonishing. \'93Lewisite\'94 is about the same (\cf2 \cb1 46% male\cf2 \cb3 ). More strikingly male-dominated are two characteristics which would be invisible in Tracy\'92s motif-focused view: \'93polemical\'94 and \'93prototypical\'94 works. 12 works are identified as \'93proto\'94 or \'93early\'94 forms of something else; of those 12, 7 are by men (58%){\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://4A1A21B9-BE06-446D-94F2-BA70817EF3DF"}}{\fldrslt .}} A slightly larger group of works exists with the tags \'93polemical,\'94 \'93philosophical,\'94 \'93political,\'94 and \'93radical/revolutionary\'94 \'97 of these 19, 13 are by men (68%). The highest male percentage that applies to more than one work is for \'93polemical\'94 Gothics, which fiercely flog some viewpoint or another: 83% of the six \'93polemical\'94 works are by men. The masculine assessment of \'93polemical\'94 works is particularly suggestive in light of the numbers for \'93didactic\'94 works, which are entirely neutral (50% each). \'93Didactic\'94 works are the only works with a persuasive agenda in which men do not dominate, suggesting a qualitative distinction: men can produce confrontational political works, whereas the didactic is a more equal-opportunity field in which women, too, can promote their ideas under the aegis of instruction. Whether the gendered distinction comes from the eighteenth century or the twenty-first, Frank\'92s model has added an additional dimension to the conclusion we drew from Tracy, that male authors can choose their subject matter more freely.}