{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The \'93horror\'94 tag, certainly, is associated with a number of motifs. Predictably, too, the \'93horror\'94 motifs look similar to the men\'92s motifs. At the top of the list of \'93horror\'94 motifs is \'93Inquisition\'94 \'97 63% of \'93horror\'94 Gothics include the Inquisition, an enormous increase over the baseline 15% presence of that motif. This striking result lends credence to the work of scholars like Robert Miles who take conspiracy as a central horror-Gothic concern. Next, less expectedly, are secret doors, at the exact same level of increase \'97 48% more secret doors in \'93horror\'94 novels than in the corpus as a whole. \'93Horror\'94 Gothics also have 47% more prophetic dreams, 46% more corpses, 40% more drugging, and 39% more banishment than the corpus as a whole. These motifs remain distinctly associated with \'93horror\'94 when we instead compare \'93horror\'94 directly to \'93terror,\'94 rather than comparing the corpus as a whole: all of these occur two to three times more often with the \'93horror\'94 tag than with \'93terror\'94. Horror and terror are most sharply distinguished from each other, though, by \'93actual incest\'94, which occurs five times more often with \'93horror\'94 than with \'93terror\'94. As when Tracy was considered alone, this minor motif has strong predictive {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://79C79B28-DB2E-474E-9ADB-32DB4650D51A"}}{\fldrslt power.}} The next strongest distinguishing motifs are \'93Satan and lesser demons\'94 and \'93loose woman\'94, both of which appear four times more frequently in \'93horror\'94 than in \'93terror\'94. Three times more frequent in \'93horror\'94 works are \'93rape\'94, \'93pre-nuptial death\'94, and \'93banishment.\'94 All of these motifs paint a distinct horror tradition, which our earlier models also allow us to see as male. But they also complicate our understanding of \'93horror\'94 by introducing motifs which were previously not male-dominated enough to become part of the categorical definition.}