{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf810
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl460\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs40 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Gothic Readers versus Gothic Writers 
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf2 James Watt. 
\i Contesting the Gothic: Fiction, Genre and Cultural Conflict, 1764\'961832 
\i0 (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1999). Pp. x + 205. $55.00 cloth. 
\b0\fs24 \

\b\fs26\fsmilli13333 Michael Gamer. 
\i Romanticism and the Gothic: Genre, Reception, and Canon Formation 
\i0 (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2000). Pp. xiii + 255. $60.00 cloth. 
\b0\fs24 \

\b\fs26\fsmilli13333 E. J. Clery and Robert Miles, eds. 
\i Gothic Documents, A Sourcebook: 1700\'96 1820 
\i0 (Manchester and New York: Manchester University Press, 2000). Pp. xii + 306. $24.95 paper. 
\b0\fs24 \
p.616: The terrific flood of books about the gothic novel continues unabated. A vastly popular mode of undisputed resonance and influence offers great opportunity to scholars of enterprise and energy.  -- Highlighted Apr 21, 2017\
p.617:p.616: Watt, the more political of the two scholars, assesses the labels that might be applied to different writers; Gamer, the more formalist (as his subtitle reflects), focuses more on moral and psychological atti- --  tudes. Both studies regard authors as speaking within and to their immediately contemporary circles -- Highlighted Apr 21, 2017\
p.617: both books lack the political passion of David Punter or the psychological intensity motivating both New Critical readings (Robert Kiely\'92s Romantic Novel in England, still the best in this line, remains unmentioned) and the subsequent Freudian and post-Freudian work of Eve Sedgwick and Terry Castle. The literature of (German) terror is now a garden of (English) delight. -- Highlighted Apr 21, 2017\
p.617: The depth of Watt\'92s and Gamer\'92s research persuades me that on historical grounds they are basically right and will help set gothic studies in a calmer view. -- Highlighted Apr 21, 2017\
p.617: Whether the gothic is best seen with this kind of wide-eyed clarity is an open question. There is a New Positivism in these books that wants settled truths and definitions. -- Highlighted Apr 21, 2017\
p.617: Watt is a nominalist. His governing premise is that the gothic is manifold: \'93The Gothic romance is a hybrid genre, its diverse affiliations best understood by way of detailed case studies of authors, works, and publishing events, and via a focus on the kinds of classification made by contemporary critics and reviewers\'94 -- Highlighted Apr 21, 2017\
p.617: Watt unearths a popular tradition of stories of recovered order and restored houses. Even though the narratives are only intermittently or glancingly gothic, they form an important context for the plot structures of better-known works. -- Highlighted Apr 21, 2017\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf2 Still, it is easier to feel more respect than enthusiasm for so level-headed a book. In taking its evidence apart, nominalism loses its thrust. The book dis- solves into its object, becoming itself the recuperative loyalist romance that it finds in its materials. Diversity turns out to be the mark of drift; nothing has the power to upset the apple-cart, and the wagon rolls onward, albeit unevenly, to- ward its market reward. The four featured authors exhibit in different flavors a common tendency to retreat from commitment into irresponsibility or consola- tion. Nothing too frightening endures. 
\fs24 \cf2 \

\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf2 Consequently, the book is perhaps most useful in provoking a response. Its critique lays the groundwork for a defense of the gothic. 
\fs24 \cf2 \

\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf2 Gamer follows (and acknowledges) Watt in arguing for the diversity of the gothic. \'93I define the gothic neither as a mode nor as a kind of fiction (the \'91gothic novel\'92) but . . . as a \'91shifting\'92 aesthetic\'94 (4). Objecting to Fredric Jame- son\'92s conception of genre as ideology, he stresses \'93gothic\'92s ideological flexibility\'94 and \'93mutability\'94 (45, 51). He gives shape to the flux by configuring it in terms of more settled oppositions such as masculine and feminine, elite and popular, ma- ture and adolescent, modern and antique, real and romantic. An insistence on contradiction gives positioning precedence over invention. 
\fs24 \cf2 \
p.621: What is the gothic? That is the core question neither of these books really even poses. (Perhaps they are too impressed by Robert Miles\'92s Gothic Writing, 1750\'961820: A Genealogy [London: Routledge, 1993], which says (p. 4) that gothic is an \'93ambiguous, shifting term, but then the textual phenomena to which it points are shifting and ambiguous.\'94 -- Highlighted Apr 21, 2017\
p.622: Neither book here sufficiently distinguishes the popular German ghost stories from the better novels that departed from them. Mary Shelley and her companions read one of those books on a rainy afternoon, and she wrote Frankenstein in response. But though she calls it a \'93ghost story,\'94 it transparently isn\'92t one. -- Highlighted Apr 21, 2017\
p.622: For surely, even as they sought the approbation of readers and reviewers to dignify their enterprise, writers also had to endow their works with a content and a purpose.  -- Highlighted Apr 21, 2017\
p.622: Gamer, like Watt, has written an account of prosaic gothic that will stand as a valuable prolegomenon to a study of the poetic richness of gothic meanings. -- Highlighted Apr 21, 2017\
}