{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 Our hypothesis was that the social networks of plays would be distinctively shaped by their narrative structures / plots, thus allowing large groups of plays to be compared based on said narrative structures.\
We built a parser that turns TEI-encoded plays into social network graphs.\
We started with Shakespeare because there\'92s a lot of work on Shakespeare. Our Hamlet graph matches Moretti\'92s, and ditto his other tragedy graphs. We were also able to graph all the other plays, too. Using fivefold validation, we were able to show that social networks can be used to identify whether plays are labelled as tragedy, history, comedy. We considered 17 different mathematical features of the networks; no one feature was sufficient to identify the genre, though \'93graph density\'94 came closest (83% accuracy). One combination which does achieve 100% accuracy is \'93edges, words, and degree\'94. (Other combos might also be able to do it, including maybe a pair, but one combo is sufficient to prove that ID based on network is possible.)\
With this preliminary validation we can step back and look at Shakespeare\'92s various contested genres. The \'93problem plays\'94 look unproblematically like comedies, suggesting that it\'92s their content rather than their form which makes them problematic. Similarly, the \'93Roman plays\'94 are unquestionably tragedies, not histories, with the possible exception of Antony and Cleopatra. However, the hybrid form of the \'93romances\'94 or \'93tragicomedies\'94 is more structural: the edges and degree are what dominate and place the romances squarely into comedies, even though the words are more like the tragedies (i.e., shorter).  So, the structure of the social network says "Comedy" but the length of the play says "Tragedy.\'94\
The networks thus provide a framework for discussion of the plays\'92 structure separately from their content. 37 plays is a small scale for this approach: future work will expand beyond a single author.\
}