{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c99997\c99999;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;
\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Frank\'92s Gothic mainstream is largely non-gendered. The two most prevalent tags in the corpus as a whole, representing all Gothics without attention paid to authorial gender, are \'93Gothic\'94 (83% of all works) and \'93pure/high\'94 (39%), both of which have the same gendered distribution of the sample as a whole. Our only hint of a gendered trend among the most widespread tags is the third most prevalent tag, \'93terror\'94 (34% of works), which, at 50% female, is somewhat above the female baseline of 43%. The next two tags in prominence are not informative about genre variation, but instead highlight the multiplicity of Frank\'92s assessments: the tags \'93mode\'94 and \'93elements\'94 are each applied to 27% of all works in the sample. \cf4 \cb5 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 These terms generally appear as qualifiers for his other assessments, as in \'93terror mode\'94 or \'93sentimental elements,\'94 and accordingly remind us to modify the implied force of \'93terror\'94 and \'93sentimental\'94 as tags. Indeed, many of Frank\'92s tags are essentially qualifiers: \'93mode\'94, \'93effects\'94, \'93Gothified\'94, and \'93imitation,\'94 for example. In Frank\'92s Gothic typology, then, the Gothic is not monolithic: each work assembles multiple elements, which have their sources elsewhere, and are all interconnected. Nothing for Frank is just one genre. Even horror and terror are far from mutually exclusive. Of the 53 \'93horror\'94 works, \cb1 26\cb5  (\cb1 49\cb5 %) are also tagged \'93terror\'94. These \cb1 26\cb5  are \cb1 50\cb5 % by men, making the horror-terror mode more predictive of male authorship than horror alone. Of the remaining \cb1 27 works which are purely horror, no terror, there are 9 by women, 9\cb5  by men, and \cb1 9\cb5  unknown \'97 a far cry from the horror Gothic as the exclusive province of men. This is the reverse of Tracy \'97 Tracy showed a male horror and equal-opportunity terror mainstream; Frank shows equal-opportunity horror, and female terror. Between the two, the only part that\'92s consistent is that terror vastly outnumbers horror. There are gendered currents, but none of them are striking enough to start making predictions about the many unsigned works.}