{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c99997\c99999;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;
}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Model introduction:\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf4 \cb1 Allow me to begin with a simple fact: the term \'93criticism\'94 was nearly ab- sent from the English language until it experienced a sharp spike in the latter half of the seventeenth century [ gure 1]. To be sure, critical writing had long existed. Renaissance poets debated the merits and ethics of their craft, and they sometimes referred to their adversaries as \'93critics.\'94 But throughout the seventeenth century, few people saw criticism as a coherent practice unto itself, and they almost never described it as a kind of writing\'97until the 1690s, that is. What changed? Most written criticism appeared in paratexts like prologues, epilogues, prefaces, or dedica- tions, where poets offered their work to readers and audiences, defended themselves against the accusations of rivals, or heaped praise on potentially generous patrons. Rather than an authoritative discourse dictating to a mass reading public\'97an image often inferred from the examples of later canonical gures like Joseph Addison or Samuel Johnson\'97most early literary criticism was devoted to the reception and distribution of individual plays and books. Rather than an author/public dyad, the social structure delineated by paratextual criticism bound poets within a web of others: not only other writers, but also politicians, stationers, and players, as well as writers from earlier eras and foreign places. Criticism was the metadiscourse of the literary marketplace. For this reason, changes in criticism can be tracked by examining changes in the relationships that criticism was employed to enact. \
In this essay, I experiment with a method that transforms publication metadata and the results of text analyses into network graphs like the one in Figure 2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 Things he does that are successful:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl360\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Open with clear, specific question and historical moment (light on context)\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Present a graph, and discuss at length what the graph shows, as introduction to technical method (not engaging yet with what the graph means)\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Explicitly outline the parts of the essay\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}No lit review until third page! (Three lit reviews, for 17thC manuscript studies, sociology/history, and DH)
\f1\fs24 \cf4 \cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
}