{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\deftab720
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\fi700\sl480\slmult1\qj\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
This line about Bridget turns out to be by no means as straightforward as its acknowledgment of truth might appear. In its full context, provided as an explanation for Bridget\'92s taking \'93the good natured Side of the Question\'94 regarding her brother\'92s adoption of Jones, the line requires multiple layers of interpretation:\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li1432\fi-4\ri720\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Perhaps the Reader may account for this Behaviour from her Condescension to Mr. 
\i Allworthy
\i0 , when we have informed him, that the good Man had ended his Narrative with owning a Resolution to take care of the Child, and to breed him up as his own; for, to acknowledge the Truth, she was always ready to oblige her Brother, and very seldom, if ever, contradicted his Sentiments; she would indeed sometimes make a few Observations, as, that Men were headstrong and must have their own Way, and would wish she had been blest with an independent Fortune; but these were always vented in a low Voice, and at the most amounted only to what is called Muttering. (I.iv)\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li1432\fi-4\ri720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\sl480\slmult1\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf2 At first glance, it seems plausible that Bridget might be quietly bowing to her brother\'92s wishes. As the sentence continues after the semicolon, however, it introduces a humorous understatement that, in its specificity regarding her \'93few\'94 observations, reverses our interpretation; we now imagine her performing an ostentatious, insincere \'93condescension,\'94 and understand the \'93truth\'94 as referring only to the literal content of her statements. Importantly, however, as Sheridan Baker\'92s astute re-reading of Bridget illuminates, to paint Bridget as a shrill old maid who nags her brother while pretending to oblige him is not \'93to acknowledge the truth\'94 at all: the narrator induces the reader to account for her behaviour in relation to Mr. Allworthy\'92s resolution, but the mention of Mr. Allworthy is an intentional misdirection. The details of her muttering may be a truth, but in terms of our goal to understand her unexpected behaviour, it is not the truth. This is the narrator\'92s first use of of the rhetoric of self-conscious truth-telling, and it serves to actively mislead us.}