{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red252\green111\blue207;\red252\green111\blue207;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c100000\c54098\c84731;\cssrgb\c100000\c54098\c84731;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 [It is necessary for new knowledge to be built upon the foundations of former knowledge; but equally it is necessary to re-investigate the truth of what is \'93known.\'94] This project revives two qualitative bibliographies from the 1980s to seek gendered patterns of writing among hundreds of early Gothic texts. I am particularly interested in trends that could have predictive power: rather than speculating about a book\'92s meaning based on its author\'92s gender, I set out to ask whether, in fa\cf2 c\cf0 t, there is anything in a book\'92s content that would allow us to speculate on its author\'92s gender.\cf3  \cf0 Implicit in this approach is a methodological critique: [for an aspect of writing to merit discussion in gendered terms, it ought to appear in more than a few texts]. Given the social reality of gender, it does not require gender essentialism to hypothesize that men and women might have [different {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://38E8F9BF-56D2-442C-B319-C7A1C552A005"}}{\fldrslt horizons of publishability}}]. The realities of gender are relevant to the work of feminist scholarship, and to the challenging of patriarchal narratives. But gender essentialism is equally dangerous to these aims. [The middle path I chart takes a sociological[?] approach, at a larger scale than individual texts.\cf2 ]\cf0  I treat gender as only one possible (weak) factor of influence; indeed, I treat gendered difference itself as the [thing] to be proven.] [[Using bibliographies prevents me from re-inventing the wheel, and also lets me \'93check\'94 past work to see how, and how much, we can repurpose older work.]] Although this paper will make its argument largely by way of numbers, in the new methodology of the \'93digital humanities\'94, the technological intervention is incredibly simple: nothing more than a few bibliographies, turned to a new angle with a \'93pivot table.\'94 The primary work of knowledge production took place thirty years ago, [when Ann Tracy and Frederick Frank wrote their qualitative bibliographies.]\cf2  [My contribution is to X.]\cf0  In the end, I find that, although Ann Tracy\'92s bibliography can be re-used, Frederick Frank\'92s bibliography is shaped inextricably and irretrievably by the sexism of the time.  Even though we \'93already know\'94 that older scholarship is sexist, this experiment shows how difficult it is to build on those foundations / correct them.}