{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 We then used our generated network graphs to test our central question: whether the social network enacted by a play\'92s characters can be used as a proxy for features of the play\'92s narrative content. More specifically, we asked whether social networks can be used to distinguish between the dramatic genres of tragedy, comedy, and history.\
We decided that the answer would be \'93yes\'94 if we could train a classifier to replicate the First Folio\'92s classifications for Shakespeare\'92s 36 plays. We tested 21 different mathematical features of the networks, with three different classifiers. These features are a combination of extracted play features (such as the number of lines), node features averaged across all nodes (such as average eigenvector centrality), and graph features (such as graph density). The most accurate classifier was a support vector machine with one vs one classification (SVM with OVO); Na\'efve Bayes was typically a few percentage points below SVM with OVO, and 
\i k
\i0 -nearest neighbours (KNN) performed so poorly in comparison that we eliminated it from our {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://8FAE83FC-E01A-40CC-84AC-5732294B6BE8"}}{\fldrslt experimentation.}} We found that even one feature could achieve classification accuracy substantially above random chance. Since there are three possibilities, a random guess would be correct 33% of the time, but as Figure <$n#fig:single-feature> shows, SVM achieved 66.43% accuracy examining only path length, and Na\'efve Bayes achieved 63.57% examining only the number of lines. \
\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \{$SCRImageLink[w:300;h:214]=/Users/lawrence/Desktop/desktop/research-sandbox/research/shakespeare-play-networks/DSH-2018-figures/single-feature.png\}\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Figure <$n:fig:single-feature>: features which perform better than random in classification.\
\
Accuracy increases as more features are considered in combination: with two features, SVM achieves 72.5% accuracy and Na\'efve Bayes achieves {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://904F4735-A900-4A9E-AE51-C646808341D3"}}{\fldrslt 77.86%.}} With three features, SVM achieves 83.57% accuracy and Na\'efve Bayes achieves {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://C8EEEAE1-891C-4204-81C8-32BD89AFBD67"}}{\fldrslt 80.71%.}} We evaluated combinations of features up to 7 maximum. Our highest accuracy (88.93%) used SVM to classify the plays with five features, a combination of play features (words, lines), node features (closeness), and network features (density and degree).}