{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 \
To briefly address questions about the parser: although our parser has not solved the problem of guessing the specific addressees of a character\'92s speech, and instead tracks characters present on stage during speech, its simplifications allow it to be remarkably extensible. It could be used to parse any play that follows TEI P5 guidelines for performance texts, using <speaker> tags with standardized character names and marking act and scene divisions with <div> tags. The parser also examines scene descriptions to see if there are characters present who do not speak, but would function reasonably robustly if scene descriptions were absent. We intend to use the parser on a body of eighteenth century plays for the next phase of the project, demonstrating its versatility.\
\'97 
\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Only markups we look into are, 
\b role
\b0  -  to fetch castlist in the current play, \'a0
\b who
\b0  - to capture who is in the scene, 
\b speaker
\b0  - who is currently speaking, 
\b div
\b0  with special id (which i think can be admired better if there was a tag to distinguish between scene and act) to distinguish between act and scene. Each act has a special id and this id has a specific extension for each scene in the corresponding act, 
\b l 
\b0 and 
\b ab 
\b0 - to get the lines spoken by a speaker.
\fs22 \cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
\
The majority of reviewers requested more detail on our literary arguments. Our assessment is likely to be further refined as we return to the literary criticism on the topic, but we have found several metrics useful for identifying comedies and histories. Interestingly, the networks of tragedies seem to represent a middle ground between histories and comedies, and are difficult to discuss directly.\
\
We find histories more strongly distinguished from comedies and tragedies than comedies and tragedies are from each other, a distinction largely driven by the substantially higher numbers of peripheral characters in history plays. Histories also feature highly dispersed networks (high criticality, modularity, and eccentricity, and low betweenness centrality) in which paired connections form chains of acquaintance, but even the monarchs have low eigenvector centrality. We use these metrics, particularly as they apply to Antony and Cleopatra, to consider classing the \'93Roman plays\'94 with the histories, but ultimately affirm their placement with tragedies.\
\
Comedies, in contrast, are distinguished by densely interconnected networks. Although comedies often have multiple subplots, these separate stories do not result in highly-separated networks. We theorize that comedic networks are strongly shaped by the plays\'92 final \'93resolution\'94 scenes, which bring together the full cast, and contrast these with the rhythms of character entrances and exits in tragic endings. Relatedly, the average eigenvector centrality of the characters in comedies is much higher than in tragedies or histories; this suggests that many more of the characters in a comedy are \'93important,\'94 reflecting a focus on ensemble stories.\
\
The observations above exclude Shakespeare\'92s \'93problem plays\'94 and \'93romances\'94. We find that the three \'93problem plays\'94 fall among the comedies for nearly every measure we consider. We don\'92t claim that this \'93solves\'94 the question of genre for these plays, but rather propose it as support for literary arguments that the \'93problem\'94 lies in a mismatch between a comedic structure and un-comedic subject matter. The networks of the three \'93romances\'94 are more structurally ambiguous, supporting literary arguments that Shakespeare\'92s writing had grown more experimental at the end of his career.\
\
We look forward to presenting the graphs of all 37 plays (which unfortunately cannot be attached to this response) to show visually the mathematical differences we have observed.}