{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red26\green26\blue26;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c13333\c13333\c13333;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl220\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Rather than introduce a fourth variable of \'91ambiguous\'92 plays\'96 which by the way were not a First Folio classification - I found their sudden appearance as a \'91coherent group\'92 to be very strange. I would much prefer to see a discussion of ways plays understood to be \'91late\'92 break the general patterns you describe here, as this could be a productive way to further problematize them in a way which will be visible to the Shakespeare scholars reading will appreciate. Regretfully, I had some doubts about how familiar you were with these later plays in their discussion, but I was grateful to see some evidence from the Shakespeare literature attempting to guide us. By flipping this script and highlighting that they are somehow different than the rest of their assigned FF contemporaries, you open yourself up to a wider discussion of ways they are structurally variable and what that means for interpreting these plays\'92 character interactions.\
\
\'93In contrast, only 20% of the histories show it, and only 13% of the First Folio\'92s comedies, both\
of which now have their status as comedies disputed.\'94 Why are they disputed? According to\
whom? You? Your algorithm? Other scholars? This is a very, very big statement for a field that\
believes in the idea of generic stability \'96 to make this claim your evidence must be water-tight,\
and currently it is dependent on some kind of unspecified cluster modelling (as far as I can tell).\
This doesn\'92t mean you can\'92t make this claim; you just need to give a lot more detail and\
evidence to back it up. Which plays are the ones showing this evidence? Do they have anything\
in common (year attested or authorship status would be good places to start here)??\
\
Where did you get the name \'93Ambiguous plays\'94 from? This is definitely not part of the first\
folio. (\'91problem plays\'92 is a more accepted name, but also definitely not received from FF\'92;\
primarily covers romances/late plays). If you do want to group these together you first must find\
scholarship that defines them as a coherent group and cite accordingly.\
Page 14\
You now move into an entirely new classification system, which has never been introduced or\
explained; if you are going to this, you need to do some legwork to introduce it.\
\'93We thought our classifier might re-classify them as histories; however, as Table 2 shows, only\
Antony & Cleopatra, with only one classifier\'94 \'96 this sentence has the word \'91classifier\'92 too many\
times, doing too many different things. Help your poor reader out here!\
Pg 15. 
\b What is so surprising about Cymbeline? Other scholars call it \'91not a tragedy\'92 but I don\'92t\
know what you are finding to be such an anomaly.
\b0  Winter\'92s Tale is a widely-established Weird\
Play, so its behaviour should be expected to also be weird; looking at figure 15, it does pretty\
much what I would expect given the structure and relationships between the characters of the\
play. Is the problem that it doesn\'92t have any main central figure? I\'92m not sure I understand what\
the issue is here.}