{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf810
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\fi960\sl380

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 The ESTC has records on 51,965 works printed in England during this decade. The ESTC has alre\cb1 ady provided me with their core bibliographical records of the authors, titles, and imprints for these works. Research by Leo Lahti and others, which examines similar basic bibliographic data for 50,766 works categorized as history in the ESTC, has demonstrated some fruitful techniques for research at this scale. I will deploy these and similar techniques in order to identify influential authors and major groupings of texts. I expect to see, from multiple reprintings of her works, that Ann Radcliffe was an increasingly popular author in my decade, and to find her influence visible in the titles of works published in the wake of her success. 
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs32 I will also look in more detail at some subsets of my 51,965 items. Taking cues from Steven Zwicker, I will use random sampling to extract a small enough list that I can research the works\'92 publication history and content. I believe this will enable me to assemble a frame of reference for the relative popularity of particular generic forms within the mediascape in the late 1700s. By briefly reading these sampled works with an eye to their political content, I also hope to get a sense of the extent to which works in this group openly describe their political agendas.}