{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf810
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li720\fi-720\sl360\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
*Eighteenth Century Collections Online Text Creation Partnership*. Gale Cengage. Web.\
*English Short Title Catalogue*. The British Library. Web.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li720\fi-720\sl360\slmult1\pardirnatural
\cf2 \cb3 Felski, Rita. *
\i The Limits of Critique*
\i0 . Chicago: U Chicago, 2015. Print.\
Gamer, Michael. *
\i Romanticism and the Gothic: Genre, Reception, and Canon Formation*
\i0 . Cambridge: Cambridge UP, 2000. Print. \
Lahti, Leo, Niko Ilom\'e4ki, and Mikko Tolonen. \'93A Quantitative Study of History in the English Short-Title Catalogue (ESTC), 1470-1800.\'94 *
\i LIBER Quarterly*
\i0  25.2 (2015): 87\'9631. Web.\
Marcus, Sharon, Heather Love, and Stephen Best. \'93Building a Better Description.\'94 *
\i Representations*
\i0  135.1 (Summer 2016): 2-21. Web.\
Moretti, Franco. *
\i Distant Reading*
\i0 . London: Verso, 2013. Print. \
Samuels, Lisa and Jerome McGann. \'93Deformance and Interpretation.\'94 *
\i New Literary History*
\i0  30.1 (Winter 1999): 25-56. 
\i JSTOR
\i0 . Web. 24 Feb. 2014. \
Sedgewick, Eve. \'93Paranoid Reading and Reparative Reading, or, You\'92re So Paranoid, You Probably Think This Essay Is About You.\'94 *
\i Touching Feeling*
\i0 . Durham, NC: Duke UP, 2003. Print.\
Zwicker, Steven N. \'93Is There Such a Thing as Restoration Literature?\'94 *
\i Huntington Library Quarterly*
\i0  69.3 (2006): 425\'96450. Web.}