{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red38\green38\blue38;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\csgray\c20000;
}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Reviewed by I
\fs21\fsmilli10667 AN 
\fs32 H. D
\fs21\fsmilli10667 E 
\fs32 J
\fs21\fsmilli10667 ONG 
\fs24 \cb1 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sa120\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs22 \cf4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \'93Kirwan praises Ward Elliot and Robert Valenza\'92s \'93call for acknowledgement of uncertainty (a productive agnosticism rather than a reactionary atheism or unquestioning faith),\'94 concluding the section with the dictum that \'93critics should be as willing to lose Shakespeare as to find him\'94\'94\
\'93The Apocrypha \'93are the plays attributed to, but emphatically not by, Shakespeare\'94 (3). They are \'93a deeply problematic group on the fringe of Shakespeare Studies\'94\'94\
\'93Shakespeare and the Idea of Apocrypha rebels against that trend, marshaling literary criticism, critical canon theory, attribution studies, and historical sleuthing in an eclectic and ambitious attempt to interrogate the apocryphal nature of the Apocrypha. In so doing, Kirwan proposes to continue destabilizing the monolithic \'93Shakespeare,\'94 a project he traces back two decades.\'94\
\'93a startlingly diffuse, unexpectedly consistent corpus of plays linked by company ownership, rather than by what he argues is the anachronism of authorial ownership.\
Motivated to trouble \'93post-Romantic ideals of individual authorship\'94\'94\
\'93Boldly, he offers agnosticism to replace the \'93did-didn\'92t binary.\'94 This yields \'93the possibility of Shakespeare\'92s contribution\'94 to Locrine (137) or a proposed differentiation between \'93Shakespearean\'94 and \'93by Shakespeare\'94 (161). This third chapter may inflame more controversy than anything else in the book.\'94\
\'93the field of attribution studies desperately needs critical metacognitive appraisals of its methods, its successes, and its failures. Kirwan\'92s assessment of and engagement with attribution studies ought to be cited for years to come\'94\
\'93Having proven the constructedness of \'93Canon\'94 and \'93Apocrypha,\'94 having demonstrated the viability of collaboratively created drama, and having questioned the use and availability of \'93certain\'94 attributions, Kirwan performs his crowning disruption\'97to \'93redefine the meanings of both \'91Shakespeare\'92 and \'91complete\'92 in a bid to offer multiple configurations of canon\'94 (205). Here and throughout, Kirwan affirms canons, not a Canon.\'94\
\'93Kirwan\'92s final chapter models alternative canon-writing practices as evidence of the potentiality of multivalent canons \'93to provide options instead of answers\'94 dependent upon audiences\'92 critical participation\'94}