{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf100
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\pardirnatural\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Reading Feeling\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 My readings have traced the development, in the latter half of the eighteenth century, of a complex negotiation regarding the role of feeling in the public sphere and in literature. Competing definitions of the effects of sympathy had high-stakes political and ethical implications: does universal sympathy unite all people into a moral society of citizens, or do emotional interpretations of events blind people to rational justice? When literature excites a strong emotional response, is this a healthy form of exercise for its audience\'92s moral feeling, or a weakening distraction from real moral action? These questions, in translated form, continue to shape my own questions about literature as a field: what should one read, and how should one read it, if one wishes to honor the importance of feeling without being misled by emotional manipulation?\
The \'93major\'94 works across the period are characterized by sentimental novels before the 1780s, to political philosophy and gothic novels during the 80s and 90s, to romantic poetry at the turn of the 19
\fs22 \super th
\fs32 \nosupersub  century. My interest in the gothic and the supernatural is thus subsumed within a larger conversation about the representation of feeling. As Clery, Miles, and Gamer have explored in different ways, gothic and supernatural stories encompass a subset of literary strategies to understand and use feeling, which exist in conversation and competition with other strategies. Each work must strike its own balance between exciting the feelings of its readers, and moderating them. The simplest narrative tracing this development begins with a naive emotional philosophy of benevolence in sentimental novels, which gets exposed as flawed by the rationalist political philosophy of the 80s and 90s and must grapple with its failures in the gothic literature of that period, and which forms a new balance though elevation and retrospection in romantic literature.}