{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf100
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\pardirnatural\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Writing Timeliness\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Whether newly written or reprinted to meet new demand, texts take on shifting meanings as they are printed, reprinted, revised, and recontextualized over time
\i . 
\i0 The changing impact of works over time is most obvious in overtly political works like Edmund Burke\'92s 
\i Reflections on the Revolution in France
\i0 , whose relationship with, for example, Helen Maria Williams\'92 
\i Letters from France
\i0  and Mary Wollstonecraft\'92s 
\i Vindication of the Rights of Men 
\i0 was directly determined by the extent to which the works in question were considered to have been borne out by political events. But time-sensitive readings, and an expected textual responsiveness for current events, extended to to literary works as well.
\i \

\i0 Novels which, in scholarly editions, give the illusion of being singular, unified objects are nearly all the result of a more complicated and responsive process of coming into being. As 
\i Tristram Shandy 
\i0 was composed and published, for example, each new installment slightly shifted its emphasis, so that the emerging narrative only gradually solidified into what are, in retrospect, its major concerns. Particularly notable is the way that volumes 7 through 9 of 
\i Tristram Shandy
\i0 , written after the publication of 
\i The Castle of Otranto
\i0 , incorporate Gothic materials differently than the earlier volumes; rather than being one text with one interpretation of the role of the supernatural in heightening readerly emotion, 
\i Shandy
\i0  was a phenomenon which unfolded and varied over time. Even works which were not printed in installments, like Matthew Lewis\'92s 
\i The Monk
\i0  and Walter Scott\'92s 
\i Waverley
\i0 , could change in content and in popular reception with a new edition.\
Similarly, 
\i Lyrical Ballads
\i0  is often studied in the context of its 1798, 1800, and 1802 editions, but William Wordsworth and Samuel Taylor Coleridge seem to have been following standard poetic practice by writing new prefaces, selecting new poems, and re-editing their works for a new emphasis. Charlotte Smith enacts similar changes across the dozen editions of 
\i Elegiac Sonnets
\i0  printed between 1784 and 1812. Smith\'92s 1797 edition, for example, includes a new preface, re-selects the non-sonnet poems, and adds new sonnets to create a \'93new\'94 work out of poems which were as many as thirteen years old. The edition presents her as a politically engaged poet, directly relevant to the events of her day, whose radical philosophies are salient even in her earliest sonnets.}