{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red230\green255\blue79;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c99997\c99999;\csgenericrgb\c90000\c100000\c31000;
}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Adapting Frank\'92s model for my own, then, required working somewhat against the grain of his assumptions. However, I have avoided simply assigning each text one simple genre. Instead, I have separated out each strand of influence within his complex \'93Gothic types\'94  by dividing each \'93type\'94 into a set of tags, and tallied the uses of each {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://40A71AA1-AC4F-4C83-88DE-25B4DCC306F5"}}{\fldrslt tag.}} This process generated \cf2 \cb1 190\cf2 \cb3  unique tags, most of which only applied to one or two works. By rendering the tags individually listable, my model imposes a more systematic ontology than Frank\'92s. However, because each work is \'93tagged\'94 numerous times, my model retains the details of each work\'92s often-idiosyncratic combinations of influences. My approach treats each \'93tag\'94 as an independent object of inquiry, informative on its own regarding one small facet of a work\'92s participation in its generic context. I ask whether the association of a given tag with a work constitutes meaningful information regarding the probable gender of that work\'92s author. Because Frank\'92s classifications are subjective assessments, an answer of \'93yes\'94 to this question could have two meanings. When we find, for example, that the \'93sentimental\'94 tag predicts female authorship, this could indicate either that women really did write more sentimental novels, or that certain common features of the Gothic are more likely to be 
\i \cf2 \cb3 called
\i0 \cf2 \cb3  sentimental when women write them. Correlating genre tags with less ambiguous features of the work \'97 such as the inclusion of particular motifs \'97 will, later, allow us to examine to what extent Frank is responding to differences in authorial usage. \cf2 \cb4 But regardless of their basis, Frank\'92s assessments are informative about the horizon of critical expectations.\cf2 \cb3  Frank\'92s model of the multiplicity of Gothic subgenres, in the reverse of Tracy, shows an identifiable women\'92s Gothic, whereas the men\'92s Gothic is elusive.}