{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red10\green10\blue10;\red255\green255\blue255;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c3922\c3922\c3922;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;
}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li720\fi-720\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	1.	}
\b Alberich, R., Miro-Julia, J., and Rossell\'f3., F.
\b0 \'a0(2002). Marvel Universe Looks Almost Like a Real Social Network. [preprint] Available at: arXiv:cond-mat/0202174v1\
{\listtext	2.	}
\b Algee-Hewitt, M.
\b0 \'a0(2017). Distributed Character: Quantitative Models of the English Stage, 1500-1920.\'a0In: 
\i Digital Humanities 2017: Book of Abstracts
\i0 . Montreal: McGill University and Universit\'e9 de Montr\'e9al, 119\'9621.\
\ls1\ilvl0
\b {\listtext	3.	}Hoover, D.
\b0  The microanalysis of style variation. Digital Scholarship in the Humanities, 32(suppl_2): ii17-ii30. Available at: https://doi.org/10.1093/llc/fqx022\
{\listtext	4.	}
\b Bastian M., Heymann S., Jacomy M.
\b0  (2009). Gephi: An Open Source Software for Exploring and Manipulating Networks
\i .
\i0  In: 
\i International AAAI Conference on Weblogs and Social Media
\i0 . Available at: https://www.aaai.org/ocs/index.php/ICWSM/09/paper/view/154.\
{\listtext	5.	}
\b Bevington, D.
\b0  (1962). From Mankind to Marlowe: Growth of Structure in the Popular Drama of Tudor England. Harvard: Harvard University Press.\
{\listtext	6.	}
\b Boyer, A.
\b0  (2018). Teaching Shakespeare Through the Theatrical Practice of Doubling. 
\i This Rough Magic
\i0 , 9(1): n. pag.\
{\listtext	7.	}
\b Chandler, D.
\b0  (1977). An introduction to genre theory. 
\i The Media and Communications Studies Site
\i0 .\
{\listtext	8.	}
\b Fischer, F., G\'f6bel, M., Kampkaspar, D., Kittel, C., and Trilcke, P.
\b0 \'a0(2017). Network Dynamics, Plot Analysis: Approaching the Progressive Structuration of Literary Texts.\'a0In: 
\i Digital Humanities 2017: Book of Abstracts
\i0 . Montr\'e9al: McGill University and Universit\'e9 de Montr\'e9al, 437\'9641.\
{\listtext	9.	}
\b\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Fischer, F., G\'f6bel, M., Kampkaspar, D., Kittel, C., Meiners, H., Skorinkin, D., and Trilcke, P. 
\b0 (2018). Digital Literary Network Analysis (dlina). Available at: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://dlina.github.io/"}}{\fldrslt https://dlina.github.io/}}
\fs22 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\b {\listtext	10.	}Jockers, M. (2013).
\b0  
\i Macroanalysis
\i0 . Champaign, Illinois: University of Illinois Press.\
{\listtext	11.	}
\f1\b\fs26 \cf3 \cb4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Johnson, S.\'a0(1986).
\b0  Selections from Johnson on Shakespeare. Bronson, B. and O\'92Meara, J., eds. New Haven, CT: Yale University Press, 307.
\f0\fs22 \cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\b {\listtext	12.	}Moretti, F.\'a0(2011).
\b0  Network Theory, Plot Analysis.\'a0New Left Review,\'a068: pp. 80\'96102.\
{\listtext	13.	}
\f1\b\fs26 \cf3 \cb4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Mowat, B. (2003).
\b0  \'93What\'92s in a Name?\'94: Tragicomedy, Romance, or Late Comedy. In: Dutton, R., and Howard, J., eds. 
\i A Companion to Shakespeare\'92s Works
\i0 . Volume 4,\'a0
\i The Poems, Problem Comedies, Late Plays
\i0 . Oxford: Blackwell.
\f0\fs22 \cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
{\listtext	14.	}
\b Stiller, J., Nettle, D., and Dunbar, R. I. M.
\b0 \'a0(2003). The Small World of Shakespeare's Plays.\'a0Human Nature, 14(4): 397\'96408.\
{\listtext	15.	}
\b Sparavigna, A. C.
\b0 \'a0(2013). On Social Networks in Plays and Novels.\'a0International Journal of Sciences, 2: 20\'9625.\
{\listtext	16.	}
\b Trilcke, P., Fischer, F., G\'f6bel, M., Kampkaspar, D.
\b0  (2016). Theatre Plays as \'91Small Worlds\'92? Network Data on the History and Typology of German Drama, 1730\'961930. In: 
\i Digital Humanities 2016: Conference Abstracts
\i0 . Krak\'f3w: Jagiellonian University and Pedagogical University, 385-387.\
{\listtext	17.	}
\b Wayne, V.
\b0  (2015). The First Folio\'92s Arrangement and Its Finale.\'a0Shakespeare Quarterly, 66(4): 389-408.\'a0Available at:\'a0doi:10.1353/shq.2015.0064\
{\listtext	18.	}
\i\b WordHoard Shakespeare
\i0 .
\b0  (2003). Northwestern University and Tufts University.\
}