{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c99997\c99999;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;
}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\'93
\f1\b\fs24 \cf4 \cb1 the category \'93Female Gothic\'94 more accurately reflects the ideological goals of second-wave feminist literary criticism than it represents the narratives of early women Gothic writers
\b0 \'94 (2)
\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \
\'93
\f1\fs24 \cf4 \cb1 So, I entitled this piece, \'93Was there ever a Female Gothic?\'94 with a sense of hesitation. It seemed ungrateful to question a literary category that made my scholarship and that of many of my peers even possible. Yet, I have wanted to write this article for some time, because 
\b categorizing a work as part of the Female Gothic seems to create more problems for analysis than it solves
\b0 . 
\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \'94 (2)\
\'93
\f1\fs24 \cf4 \cb1 While critics\'85have attempted to refine the term Female Gothic, 
\b its usage has limited the ways in which scholars approach women\'92s Gothic writing
\b0 . Women-authored texts that do not feature \'93Female Gothic\'94 tropes\'97a distressed heroine, domestic incarceration, threats of sexual violence, anxiety about monstrous or absent mothers\'97are often given little critical attention. As I and others have argued elsewhere, however,
\b  women\'92s early Gothic writing
\b0 \'97 a great deal of which is only accessible to us because of the recovery work of feminist scholars\'97
\b is much more aesthetically, politically, thematically, and generically diverse than the Female Gothic categorization suggests
\f0\b0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \'94(2)\
\'93
\f1\fs24 \cf4 \cb1 This essay does not wish to disqualify the important work done on the Female Gothic. The themes this work has identified (women\'92s domestic incarceration, sexual violence, economic disenfranchisement and spectral maternity) are central to the Gothic mode. Rather, this essay attempts to explain why the discrepancy between available primary textual material and textual analysis exists and how it came to be. 
\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \'94(2)\
\'93
\f1\fs24 \cf4 \cb1 I hope to move the conversation about women\'92s Gothic writing in new directions by pointing out the ways
\b  nineteenth- and twentieth-century political conditions shaped the Female Gothic as a category that does not fully reflect the richness of women\'92s early Gothic material
\b0 . 
\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \'94(2) \'97 useful esp for use of \'93women\'92s Gothic\'94\
\'93
\f1\fs24 \cf4 \cb1 When feminist critics in the 1970s sought to create a female canon\'97to which the Female Gothic was integral\'97they reproduced nineteenth-century critics\'92 rhetoric of Radcliffe\'92s originality and influence. 
\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \'94(2)\
\'93
\f1\fs24 \cf4 \cb1 In some ways, the term \'93Female Gothic\'94 has been a victim of its own success. The important work achieved by second-wave feminists to create a more inclusive canon and to \'93recover\'94 women\'92s writing, reveals that women authors\'92 relationship to the burgeoning Gothic mode was richer and more nuanced than previously thought in ways that demand that we widen the lens with which we approach women\'92s Gothic productions from the eighteenth century to the present. 
\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \'94(2)\
flawed definitions of Female Gothic:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl360\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\'93
\f1\fs24 \cf4 \cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
This essay does not wish to disqualify the important work done on the Female Gothic. The themes this work has identified (women\'92s domestic incarceration, sexual violence, economic disenfranchisement and spectral maternity) are central to the Gothic mode.
\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \'94(2)\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\'93
\f1\fs24 \cf4 \cb1 The Female Gothic has been closely associated with the \'93explained supernatural style\'94 made famous by Radcliffe, in which supernatural events are threatened but later rationalized. This style is in opposition to the \'93Male Gothic,\'94 made famous by Horace Walpole and Matthew Lewis, in which ghosts, devils and other supernatural phenomena demand a willful suspension of disbelief from the reader (Milbank, 1998: 54 and Hogle, 2002: 9\'96 10). Yet important Gothic practitioners, such as Clara Reeve, Charlotte Dacre, and Mary Shelley all write in the so-called \'93male\'94 style. 
\b While it is rare for male authors to write in the \'93female\'94 style, an author\'92s gender does not typically align with the \'93female/male\'94 aesthetic binary
\b0  (Miles, 2000). 
\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \'94 (3)\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\'93
\f1\fs24 \cf4 \cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
As many scholars have noted, women authors often create Gothic worlds that symbolize patriarchal power in which a virginal heroine attempts to overcome an exaggerated version of the subjugation women face in everyday life. However, a critical mass of women\'92s Gothic writing exists that addresses very different themes and characters. \'85 In short, women do not exclusively write about distressed virtue and the domestic sphere, and even when they do, the female characters represent a diversity of experience. 
\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \'94 (3)\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \'93
\f1\fs24 \cf4 \cb1 Smith\'92s and Wallace\'92s collection indirectly asks a question that is more pointedly posed in the original Gothic Studies introductory essay: how does the Female Gothic continue to resonate as a means of critical inquiry despite poststructuralism\'92s influence, through which essential categories such as \'93female\'94 have been largely destabilized?
\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \'94(3)\
\'93
\f1\fs24 \cf4 \cb1 This point is where my essay intervenes by offering a historical, rather than theoretical answer to the question \'93was there ever a Female Gothic?\'94 
\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \'94(3)\
\'93
\f1\fs24 \cf4 \cb1 I focus my attention instead on an important concept from feminist thought: strategic essentialism. Gayatri Spivak invokes this term to describe moments in which scholars put aside their critiques of essentialism to inspire political change (Spivak, 2012). In the broadest sense, I am suggesting that, for pragmatic reasons, second-wave feminists were required to define narrowly women\'92s contribution to Gothic writing. They did not have the luxury,  / early on, of questioning what it meant to be female or to choose an obscure author as their champion. Instead, they rigorously and effectively made a case for women\'92s writing by leading with their strongest example, who had long been accepted by a fully enfranchised male critical establishment: Ann Radcliffe. 
\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \'94 (3-4)\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\fs30 \cf2 \cb3 \'93
\f1\fs22 \cf4 \cb1 When one starts to investigate who these \'93successors\'94 are, both Moir\'92s and Scott\'92s phrasing starts to make more sense. Historical evidence reveals that anonymous women comprised the majority of Gothic authors (Jacobs, 2000). Moir, however, does not link Radcliffe with these women when he uses the gender-neutral term \'93successors,\'94 suggesting a desire to distance Radcliffe from her female peers. For Scott, who is trying to canonize the novel, the association of Radcliffe with these anonymous women would undermine his argument. 
\f0\fs30 \cf2 \cb3 \'94 (5)
\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \
\'93
\f1\fs24 \cf4 \cb1 Writing in the wake of this critique, it is advantageous for Scott to characterize the Gothic novel\'92s audience as male. This tactic not only evaporates concerns about tainting impressionable female minds, it also elevates the novel\'92s status. The Gothic novel, he argues, is an everyman\'92s genre. \'85 When discussing the romance reader\'92s demographics, Scott again elides historical reality. He imagines only a male audience \'97\'93clown\'94, \'93gentleman\'94\'97and suggests that what they scoff at in public, these men enjoy in private. Scott describes reading romance as an act of heterosexual seduction\'85 Promoting romance reading as a virile act subverts the dominant stereotype of the romance reader as a flighty maiden.
\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \'94 (5)\
\'93
\f1\fs24 \cf4 \cb1 These feminist critics appear to also have been deeply influenced by Scott\'92s contention that Radcliffe is the Gothic novel\'92s main innovator. Yet earlier writers, such as Clara Reeve and Sophia Lee, deeply influenced Radcliffe\'92s content; while others, such as Hester Piozzi and Charlotte Smith, anticipated the style for which Radcliffe became famous\'85 In fact, a side-by-side comparison suggests that Radcliffe borrows from Smith\'92s Mowbray Castle to create the castle at Udolpho. Ultimately, it is less important who influenced whom, as the influence was most likely reciprocal. What is important, however, is how critics have interpreted this influence.\'94 (6)\
\'93Baron\'92s emphasis on maintaining a relative sense of realism and an atmosphere of moral instruction are key elements in the formation of Radcliffe\'92s style, which will later be termed the \'93Female Gothic.\'94 Considering just this one instance of an overlooked route of influence suggests, as I hope this entire essay does, that the development of a women\'92s Gothic tradition was a much lengthier and more organic process than how Scott and his contemporaries and later second-wave feminist critics described.\'94 (7)
\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \
Lit review:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl360\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\'93
\f1\fs24 \cf4 \cb1 While critics, including Robert Miles, Alison Milbank, Emma Clery, and Diane Hoeveler among many others, have attempted to refine the term Female Gothic, its usage has limited the ways in which scholars approach women\'92s Gothic writing. \'85 As I and others have argued elsewhere, however, women\'92s early Gothic writing\'97 a great deal of which is only accessible to us because of the recovery work of feminist scholars\'97is much more aesthetically, politically, thematically, and generically diverse than the Female Gothic categorization suggests (Kelly, 2003, Wright, 2003, Potter, 2005, Coykendall, 2005, Ledoux, 2013). 
\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \'94(2)\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\'93
\f1\fs24 \cf4 \cb1 Ellen Moers\'92s initial generative suggestion galvanized a whole body of criticism that explores the coded expressions in women- authored Gothic texts, such as Sandra Gilbert and Susan Gubar\'92s Madwoman in the Attic (1979), a volume of essays edited by Julian Fleenor entitled The Female Gothic (1983), Kate Ferguson Ellis\'92s The Contested Castle (1989), Eugenia DeLamotte\'92s Perils of the Night (1990), Diane Long Hoeveler\'92s Gothic Feminism (1998), Helene Meyers\'92s Femicidal Fears (2001), Donna Heiland\'92s Gothic and Gender (2004), Andrew Smith\'92s and Diana Wallace\'92s collection The Female Gothic: New Directions (2009), and Avril Horner\'92s and Sue Zlosnik\'92s recent Edinburgh Companion on Women and the Gothic (2016) among other monographs and essays too numerous to name. 
\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \'94(2)\
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\'93
\f1\fs24 \cf4 \cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
For all the reasons discussed above, a robust meta-discussion about linking a gendered signifier to an aesthetic mode continues. Women\'92s Writing and Gothic Studies devoted entire volumes to the topic in 1994 and 2004, respectively. Others have sought to broaden the term\'92s reach; Pauline Palmer\'92s Lesbian Gothic (1999) examines closely women\'92s homoerotic relationships. Emma Clery\'92s Women\'92s Gothic (2000) discusses women authors who wrote in the \'93male\'94 and the \'93female\'94 style. Pickering and Chatto published a 5-volume series Varieties of Female Gothic (2002), which represents women\'92s engagement with genres beyond the novel. Postfeminist Gothic (2007), edited by Benjamin Brabon and St\'e9phanie Genz, provides readings\'97mostly of contemporary film and television\'97that examine depictions of female characters through a feminist/postfeminist dialectic. The Female Gothic: New Directions (2009), edited by Andrew Smith and Diana Wallace, expands upon the 2004 special issue of Gothic Studies and updates the discussion of Fleenor\'92s original. Smith\'92s and Wallace\'92s collection indirectly asks a question that is more pointedly posed in the original Gothic Studies introductory essay: how does the Female Gothic continue to resonate as a means of critical inquiry despite poststructuralism\'92s influence, through which essential categories such as \'93female\'94 have been largely destabilized? (Smith and Wallace, 2004). Avril Horner\'92s and Sue Zlosnik\'92s recent Edinburgh Companion on Women and the Gothic (2016) offers a \'93big picture\'94 re-evaluation of women authors and women characters in relation to a wide variety of genres within the Gothic mode. 
\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \'94(3)\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
}