{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf810
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\fi700\sl480\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 It it telling that Samuels and McGann refer to their deformations as a \'93deformative program\'94 which is \'93run\'85 through a particular work\'94 to produce unpredictable but replicable\'94results\'94 (36).\
[Samuels and McGann initially exclude modes of criticism that \'93do not aim to be interpretive\'94 from their analysis; their examples of ostensibly non-interpretive criticism are 
\f1 \'93bibliographical studies and prosodic analysis\'94 but [would include models like mine] (26).] [However, they ultimately conclude that it\'92s all interpretive (46).] \
\
Role of experiments: 
\b Interpreting a poem after it has been deformed clarifies the secondary status of the interpretation
\b0 .\'94 (Samuels & McGann 40). \'93\'91Meaning\'92 is important not as explanation but as residue. It is what is left behing after the experiment has been run. 
\b We develop it not to explain the poem but to judge the effectiveness of the experiment we undertook
\b0 .\'94 (Samuels & McGann 48)\
they class \'93bibliographical studies and prosodic analysis\'94 \'97 [which is basically my stuff] \'97 as non-interpretive (26). [Therefore, that stuff that didn\'92t look \'93interpretive\'94 actually is interpretive and can be deformed.]
\f0 \
\
\
\
\'93The usual object of interpretation is \'91meaning,\'92 or some set of ideas that can be cast in thematic form. These meanings are sought in different ways: as though resident \'91in\'92 the work, or evoked through \'91reader-response,\'92 or deconstructable \'85 In all these cases, however, an essential relation is preserved between an artistic work and \'85 some conceptual form that gets more or less fully articulated \'91for\'92 the work. To understand a work of art, interpreters try to close with a structure of thought that represents its essential idea(s).\'94 (Samuels & McGann 26)\
They \'93propose\'85 another way of engaging imaginative work\'94 which \'93moves to break beyond conceptual analysis into \'85 performative operations.\'94 They argue that \'93concept-based interpretation, reading along thematic lines, is itself best understood as a particular type of performative and rhetorical operation.\'94 (Samuels & McGann 26)\
\
Emily Dickinson\'92s habit of reading poems backward is \'93a spendid model for\'85 deformative criticism\'94 (Samuels & McGann 28). \'93Her procedure\'85 follows a romantic awareness\'85 that poems lose their vital force when they succumb to familiarization\'94 (Samuels & McGann 28). Despite affinity with modernist techniques of estrangement, \'93Dickinson\'92s critical model is performative, not intellectual\'94 (Samuels & McGann 29). \'93Reading Backward short circuits the sign of prose transparency and reinstalls the text \'97 any text, prose or verse \'97 as a performative event, a made thing.\'94 (Samuels & McGann 30)\
\
\'93First, imaginative work has an elective affinity with performance: it is organized as rhetoric and 
\i poiesis
\i0  rather than as exposition and information-transmission. Because this is so, it always lies open to deformative moves.\'94 Second, \'93criticism\'85 tends to imagine itself as an informative rather than a deformative activity.\'94 (Samuels & McGann 33) \'93Here we want to point out that lines of performative and deformative critical activity have always existed,\'94 including \'93Elaborate scholarly editions\'94 and \'93translations\'94 (Samuels & McGann 33).\
\'93Because \'91a translation [involves] the necessity of settling many points without discussion,\'92 [D.G.] Rosetti observes, it \'91remains perhaps the most direct form of commentary\'92 that can be brought to literary work.\'94 (Samuels & McGann 34). For people who dislike Rosetti\'92s translation, \'93The critical thoroughness and integrity\'85 is exactly the problem.\'94 (Samuels & McGann 34).\
\
\'93Deformative scholarship is all but forbidden, the thought of it either // irresponsible or damaging to critical seriousness\'94 (Samuels & McGann 34-5), likely because the prime example is \'93Forgery\'94 (35) and the category also includes \'93mistaken and deviant readings produced\'85 by students unaware of an ignorance in their \'85 understanding\'94 (35). But they set these aside in favor of \'93interpretive deformation,\'94 as exemplified by \'93heretical and\'85 nonnormative readings of established cultural artifacts\'94 (Samuels and McGann 35).\
\'93The reluctance shows\'85 that interpreters \'97 even radical ones \'97 do not commonly locate hermeneutic vitality in the documentary features of literary works. Because meaning is assumed to develop as a linguistic event, critical deformance plays itself out in the field of the signifieds.\'94 (Samuels & McGann 35). \'93Critical and interpretive limits are thus regularly established\'94 to excluse consideration of \'93the physical artifact, whose stability and integrity is taken as inbiolable\'94 (Samuels & McGann 35).\
\'93From an interpretive point of view, this assumption brackets off from attention crutical features of imaginative works\'85 so basic and conventionally governed \'97 they are alphabetical and diacritical. they are the rules for character formation, character arrangement, and textual space, as well as for the structural forms of words, phrases, and higher morphemic and phonemic units\'97 that readers tend to treat them as preinterpetive and precitical. In truth, however, they comprise the operating system of language\'94 (Samuels & McGann 35). \'93Linguists, semioticians, bibliographers, and cognitive theorists regularly explore these territories, but their work is not normally concerned with interpretation in the customary sense \'97 that is, with explaining aesthetic and stylistic features of works\'94 (Samuels & McGann 36).\
\'93But this enlargement of the subject matter of criticism does not define the most significant function of deformative operations. Far most important is the stochastic process it entails. \'85 When we run the deformative program through a particular work we cannot predict the results.\'94 (Samuels & McGann 36). \'93\'85we are brought to a critical position in which we can imagine things about the text that we did not and perhaps could not otherwise know\'94 (Samuels & McGann 36). \'93A deformative procedure puts the reader in a highly idiosyncratic relation to the work,\'94 so that 
\b \'93customary rules are\'85 held in abeyance, to be chosen among\'85 to be followed or nor as one decides,\'94
\b0  resulting in \'93the dramatic exposure of subjectivity as a live and highly informative option of interpretive commentary\'94 (Samuels & McGann 36).\
\
They focus on \'93poetic deformations,\'94 \'93organized into four types:\'94 (36) reordered, isolating, altering, and adding (36-7). They focus on reordering and isolating poems, taking Wallace Stevens as their experimental ground.\
\
\'93deformance does not banish interpretation. The reversed text is still subject to, still giving of, interpretive readings. Deformance 
\i does
\i0  want to show that 
\i the poem\'92s intelligibility is not a function of the interpretation, but that all interpretation is a function of the poem\'92s systemic intelligibility
\i0 . Interpreting a poem after it has been deformed clarifies the secondary status of the interpretation.\'94 (Samuels & McGann 40).\
\
\'93we may usefully regard all criticism and interpretation as deformance. Scholars murder to dissect, as Wordsworth famously observed\'94 (Samuels & McGann 46) *** JUST LIKE LEAH PRICE\'92S ARGUMENT \'97> Despite approaching the matter from very different projects, [both] have reached a similar conclusion about the [state of criticism] which makes my own approach differ not in fundamenal kind from the norm, but in degree and in [reflexiveness? obviousness?].\
\'93Interpretation is the application of 
\i scientia
\i0  to 
\i poiesis
\i0 , or the effort to elucidate one discourse form in terms of another.\'94 (Samuels & McGann 46).\
\'93Interpretation for della Volpe\'85 always displays a gap between the work being examined and the student. But this gap does not represent a failure of criticism, or even a mysticism of 
\i poiesis
\i0 . It locates the source and end and test of the art being examined\'94 (Samuels & McGann 47). The gap comes into being as soon as the critic must paraphrase the text. \'93Interpretation, then, is a constellation of paraphrases that evolve\'85 from an uncritical to a critical moment\'94 (Samuels & McGann 47)\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\fi700\sl480\slmult1\pardirnatural
\cf0 \strike \strikec0 In della Volpe\'92s work, \'93to attempt a socio-historical paraphrase is to experiment with the poetical work, to subject it to a hypothesis of its meanings. As in any scientific experiment with natural phenomena, the engagement with the ordinary phenomenon inevitably exposes the limits of the hypothesis, and ultimaely returns us to an even more acute sense of the phenomena we desire to understand. \'85 By contrast,\'94 their deformances \'93place primary emphasis on the preconceptual elements of the text\'94 because \'93social and historical formations seem to us far less determinate, far more open to arbitrary and imaginative construction, than the appear in della Volpe\'94 (Samuels & McGann 48)\strike0\striked0 \
\'93\'91Meaning\'92 is important not as explanation but as residue. It is what is left behing after the experiment has been run. We develop it not to explain the poem but to judge the effectiveness of the experiment we undertook.\'94 (Samuels & McGann 48)\
\'93Only philosophers try to understand art. The point is to change it. Our actions on these works\'85 allow us to begin to understand our thinking about them.\'94 (Samuels & McGann 49) \
\'93To essay a more direct application of \'91interpretation\'92 to poetical work runs the risk of suggesting that interpretation can be adequate to poiesis. It cannot; it can only run a thematic experiment withthe work, enlightening it by inadequacy and indirection. \'85 one might rather look for interpretations that flaunt their subjectivity and arbitrariness\'94 (Samuels & McGann 49)\
\'93To deliberately accept the inevitable failure of interpretive \'91adequacy\'92 is to work toward discovering new interpretive virtues\'85 This attitude toward literate comprehension, and the kind of criticism it inspires, gains its power by baring its own devices.\'94 (Samuels & McGann 49)}