{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\deftab720
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li1080\fi-1080\sa100\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs24 \cf2 {\listtext	1.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Baker, Sheridan. \'93Bridget Allworthy: The Creative Pressures of Fielding\'92s Plot.\'94 
\i Papers of the Michigan Academy of Science, Arts, and Letters
\i0  52 (1967): 345\'96356. PDF File.\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	2.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Bender, John. \'93Novel Knowledge: Judgment, Experience, Experiment.\'94 
\i This Is Enlightenment
\i0 . Ed. C. Siskin and W. Warner. Chicago: U of Chicago P, 2010. 284\'96300. 
\i Scholars Portal
\i0 . Web.\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	3.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Booth, Wayne C. \'93Telling As Showing: Dramatized Narrators, Reliable and Unreliable.\'94 
\i The Rhetoric of Fiction
\i0 . Chicago: U of Chicago P, 1961. Print.\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	4.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Drury, Joseph. \'93Realism's Ghosts: Science and Spectacle in Tom Jones.\'94 
\i NOVEL: A Forum on Fiction
\i0  46.1 (2013): 50\'9672. Web.\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	5.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Fielding, Henry. 
\i The History of Tom Jones, a Foundling
\i0 . 1749. Ed. Thomas Keymer and Alice Wakely. London: Penguin Books, 2005. 
\i Kobo
\i0 . Ebook.\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	6.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Loftis, John E. \'93Trials and the Shaping of Identity in Tom Jones.\'94 
\i Studies in the Novel
\i0  34.1 (Spring 2002): 1\'9620. ProQuest. Web.\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	7.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Pagliaro, Harold. \'93The Novels and Other Prose Fiction.\'94 
\i Henry Fielding: A Literary Life
\i0 . London: MacMillan, 1998. 124\'96179. Print.\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	8.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Power, Henry. \'93Henry Fielding, Richard Bentley, and the \'91Sagacious Reader\'92 of 
\i Tom Jones
\i0 .\'94 
\i The Review of English Studies
\i0  61.252 (2010): 749\'96772. 
\i Scholars Portal
\i0 . Web.\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	9.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Sherman, Sandra. \'93Reading at Arm\'92s Length: Fielding\'92s Contract with the Reader in 
\i Tom Jones
\i0 .\'94 
\i Studies in the Novel
\i0  30.2 (1998): 232\'96245. 
\i ProQuest
\i0 . Web.\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	10.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Welsh, Alexander. \'93The Evidence in Two Novels.\'94 
\i Strong Representations: Narrative and Circumstantial Evidence in England
\i0 . Baltimore: The Johns Hopkins UP, 1992. PDF file.}