{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red204\green102\blue255;\red102\green102\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c84466\c51457\c100000;\cssrgb\c47684\c50481\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 An underlying principle of online marketplaces is that there is an economic incentive to recommend sameness -- but their real goal is to suggest things what people will buy, and they assume we will only buy what we\'92ve already bought.\cf3  \cf2 Whether in digital marketplaces, business decision-making, or social media feeds, a\cf3  preference for sameness\cf2  means that algorithms cut off the potential for surprise, diversity, and change. \cf3 [Further \'93turbo-charge\'94 the big picture \'97 media bubble, social fragmentation, etc] \cf2 The field of critical algorithm studies has increasingly revealed how algorithmic recommendation systems impede healthy forms of diversity. Wendy Chun has diagnosed the problem as a procedural assumption of \'93homophily\'94: the assumption that similarity is the defining characteristic of connection. However, there is a latent opportunity in these homophilic algorithms: in order to identify similarity, they must implicitly identify difference, and the same code can be used to create, rather than eliminate, diversity. One of the many areas affected by homophilic algorithms is that of book recommendations. In collaboration with computer scientists, I will take algorithms designed to identify textual similarities and apply them \'93in reverse.\'94 There is only one way to be "the same," but many ways of being different: the main task of the project, then, is to identify productive forms of difference. In a public-facing website, I will apply my new recommendation system in two areas. One will use Project Gutenberg and HathiTrust to offer new titles based on a reading history. Another will take in a partial syllabus for a class and a set of constraints, and suggest new texts to teach. These tools may playfully improve some people\'92s reading diversity, but they will also contribute new directions for speculative computing in the field of critical algorithm studies.\cf3 \
\
\'93What I think might help is now to boost the \'93humanities\'94 side. Among other things, you could clarify a bit more what you might imagine as \'93productive forms of difference.\'94 You hint at teaching, but what kind diversity can you envision here (even if you can\'92t predict)? What kind of texts will you be using (I know you mention Project Gutenberg, but could you say, e.g. \'93novels\'94 or \'93news stories\'94 or whatever)?\'94\
\
\'93Finally, what might the stakes be beyond the intended focus? The implications you hint at are great, but they stick very close to the project itself. It could be worth speculating a bit more about what may lie further downstream. If you are testing this new reverse homophily (heterophily?) on syllabuses and other pedagogical contexts, what might this approach yield down the road, say for news organizations, or political campaigns? I\'92m not suggesting you answer these questions (you can\'92t!) but you could mention these as arenas where your findings might eventually have notable implications.\'94}