{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\fi240\sl280\sa60\qj\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 But, my dearest Catherine, what have you been doing with yourself all this morning? Have you gone on with Udolpho?\'94\
\'93Yes, I have been reading it ever since I woke; and I am got to the black veil.\'94\
\'93Are you, indeed? How delightful! Oh! I would not tell you what is behind the black veil for the world! Are not you wild to know?\'94\
\'93Oh! Yes, quite; what can it be? But do not tell me\'97I would not be told upon any account. I know it must be a skeleton, I am sure it is Laurentina's skeleton. Oh! I am delighted with the book! I should like to spend my whole life in reading it. I assure you, if it had not been to meet you, I would not have come away from it for all the world.\'94\
\'93Dear creature! How much I am obliged to you; and when you have finished Udolpho, we will read the Italian together; and I have made out a list of ten or twelve more of the same kind for you.\'94\
\'93Have you, indeed! How glad I am! What are they all?\'94\
\'93I will read you their names directly; here they are, in my pocketbook. Castle of Wolfenbach, Clermont, Mysterious Warnings, Necromancer of the Black Forest, Midnight Bell, Orphan of the Rhine, and Horrid Mysteries. Those will last us some time.\'94\
\'93Yes, pretty well; but are they all horrid, are you sure they are all horrid?\'94\
\'93Yes, quite sure; for a particular friend of mine, a Miss Andrews, a sweet girl, one of the sweetest creatures in the world, has read every one of them. I wish you knew Miss Andrews, you would be delighted with her. She is netting herself the sweetest cloak you can conceive. I think her as beautiful as an angel, and I am so vexed with the men for not admiring her! I scold them all amazingly about it.\'94\
\
\'85\
\
\'93No, indeed, I should not. I do not pretend to say that I was not very much pleased with him; but while I have Udolpho to read, I feel as if nobody could make me miserable. Oh! The dreadful black veil! My dear Isabella, I am sure there must be Laurentina's skeleton behind it.\'94\
\'93It is so odd to me, that you should never have read Udolpho before; but I suppose Mrs. Morland objects to novels.\'94\
\'93No, she does not. She very often reads Sir Charles Grandison herself; but new books do not fall in our way.\'94\
\'93Sir Charles Grandison! That is an amazing horrid book, is it not? I remember Miss Andrews could not get through the first volume.\'94\
\'93It is not like Udolpho at all; but yet I think it is very entertaining.\'94\
\'93Do you indeed! You surprise me; I thought it had not been readable. But, my dearest Catherine, have you settled what to wear on your head tonight? I am determined at all events to be dressed exactly like you. The men take notice of that sometimes, you know.\'94\
\'85\
Catherine, in some amazement, complied, and after remaining a few moments silent, was on the point of reverting to what interested her at that time rather more than anything else in the world, Laurentina's skeleton, when her friend prevented her, by saying, \'93For heaven's sake! Let us move away from this end of the room. Do you know, there are two odious young men who have been staring at me this half hour. They really put me quite out of countenance. Let us go and look at the arrivals. They will hardly follow us there.\'94}