{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\fi700\sl480\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Here, again, a comparison with The Grecian Daughter proves instructive. When that play is modelled with the audience as a character, is appears thus: (figure 10) The inclusion of the audience as a node here does change the shape. Dionysius\'92s part of the network is now slightly more marginalized. More importantly, the audience itself has clearly chosen a side in the conflict: Dionysius may address the audience, but the node remains clustered with Evander, Melanthon, Philotas, Arcas, and, of course, Euphrasia. This physical location of the note in the graph is determined by a repeated pattern of speeh in the play which the audience is provided privileged access to these characters\'92 assessment of events and invited to join in their opinions.\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 In Act IV, for example, Euphrasia\'92s confrontation with Dionysius several times provides the audience with her true feelings before she responds to Dionysius himself. The audience recieves not only first priority, but also sincerity: Euphrasia politely inquires of Dionysius, \'93\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
And has thy heart / Felt for the wretched?\'94, but first she exclaims to us that he is a\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0  \'93Vile dissembler! / Detested homicide!\'94 (50); when he offers to allow her a visit to her father, she says to him, \'93\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Tho' much I languish to behold my father, / Yet now it were not fit\'97approaching night\'97\'94, but first she clarifies to the audience that \'93This will discover all; / I\'92ll perish first; provoke his utmost rage\'94 (51). In both cases, the former statement ensures that the audience has no chance of being taken in by the deception of the second statement. Euphrasia final aside to the audience is in Act V, immediately prior to her attack on Dionysius. Her line, \'93Now one glorious effort!\'94, gives us a forewarning that is not afforded to Dionysius, whom she interrupts mid-sentence with her dagger. In this final confrontation, Dionysius, too, addresses a few of his thoughts to the audience, but only when the stage is empty. Accordingly, rather than serving to include the audience in a conversation, his speeches function more as announcements of intent which the audience happens to overhear. Moreover, the content of his thoughts\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \'97 \'93\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
By Heav'n, the Greek hath offered to my sword / An easy prey; a sacrifice to glut / My great revenge\'94 (50) or \'93Evander dies this night:\'97Euphrasia too / Shall be dispos'd of. Curse on Phocion's fraud, / That from my pow'r withdrew their infant boy\'94 (62), for example \'97 reveals an unpalatable bloodthirstiness, targeting dishonourably the \'93easy prey\'94 of a captive or of an infant. These monologues are antisocial, both in their violent content and in the context in which the audience receives them. In contrast, by decoding her actions for the audience, Euphrasia\'92s speech treats the audience as a third member of her conversation, and positions the audience in sympathy with her and in opposition with Dionysius. A repellant connection is, in the network map, a connection nonetheless, but because Dionysius\'92s antisocial monologues are brief and infrequent compared to the intepretation Euphrasia consistently provides to the audience, and because Euphrasia\'92s allies imitate her mode of inclusive commentary whereas Dionysius\'92s imitate his exclusion, the position of the audience\'92s node is accurately shaped by the social connections that encourage the audience\'92s sympathies to align with Euphrasia\'92s family.}