{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red38\green38\blue38;\red174\green12\blue29;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c14902\c14902\c14902;\csgenericrgb\c68235\c4706\c11373;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\fi700\sl480\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \'93
\f1\fs22 \cf2 a character-system arising out of many character-spaces\'94 (3)\
\'93
\f0\fs26 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Making the past just as visible as the present: that is one major change introduced by the use of networks. Then, they make visible specific \'93regions\'94 within the plot as a whole: sub- systems, that share some significant property. 
\fs24 \'93 (4)\
\'93
\fs26 Take the characters who are connected to both Claudius and Hamlet in 
\b \cf3 Figure 5
\b0 \cf0 : except for Osric and Horatio, whose link to Claudius is however extremely tenuous, they are all killed. Killed by whom, is not always easy to say: Polonius is killed by Hamlet, for instance \'96 but Hamlet has no idea that it is Polonius he is stabbing behind the arras; Gertrude is killed by Claudius \'96 but with poison prepared for Hamlet, not for her; Hamlet is killed by Laertes, with Claudius\'92s help, while Laertes himself, like Rosencrantz and Guildenstern before him, are all killed by Hamlet, but with Claudius\'92s weapons. Individual agency is muddled; what is truly deadly, is the characters\'92 position in the network, chained to the warring poles of king and prince. Outside of that red region, no one dies in Hamlet. The tragedy, is all there.\'94 (4)\
\'93Why is the protagonist significant here? Not for what is \'93in\'94 it; not for its essence, but for its function in the stability of the network. And stability has clearly much to do with centrality, but is not identical to it. Take the second most central character of the play: Claudius. In quantitative terms, Claudius is almost as central as Hamlet (average distance of 1.62, ver- sus 1.45); but in structural terms not so, when we remove him from the network (
\b \cf3 Figures 14-5
\b0 \cf0 ) what happens is that a handful of peripheral characters are affected, but the network as a whole not much. Even if we remove, first Hamlet, and then Claudius 
\b (\cf3 Figures 16-8\cf0 )
\b0 , his subtraction doesn\'92t do much. But if we remove, first Hamlet, and then Horatio (
\b \cf3 Figures 19-21
\b0 \cf0 ), then the fragmentation is so radical that the Ghost and Fortinbras \'96 which is to say, the beginning and the ending of the play \'96 are completely severed from each other and from the rest of the plot. Hamlet no longer exists. And yet, Horatio is slightly less central than Claudius in quantitative terms (1.69 versus 1.62). Why is he so much more important in structural terms?\'94 (5)
\f1\fs22 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
}