{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red38\green38\blue38;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c14902\c14902\c14902;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\sa200

\f0\fs28 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
JEAN I. MARSDEN. Fatal Desire: Women, Sexuality, and the English Stage, 1660-1720. Ithaca: Cornell, 2006. Pp. 216. $45.\
In Fatal Desire, Ms. Marsden traces the critical role women played in late seventeenth/early eighteenth-century English theater as playwrights, actors, and spectators. The "she-tragedy," which she defines as a subgenre that "focuses on the suffering and often tragic end of a central, female figure," became the form playwrights used to invoke an emotional response and to forward a political agenda. As the political message became prioritized over female sexuality, the popularity of the "shetragedy" came to a close; this indicated the important role the genre played in satisfying the audience's desire for the "spectacle of female distress."\
Ms. Marsden discusses the turn-of-the-century theatrical debates, best characterized by the writings of Collier, and the roles women played as both object within the plays and subject within the audience. While anti-theater texts like Collier's feared female subjects because they could embody unchecked sexual desire, women were at least acknowledged. Next she explores the representation of female sexuality in Wycherley's The Plain Dealer (1676/77) and Vanbrugh's The Provok'd Wife (1697). In The Plain Dealer the mask of false modesty only serves to cover up wanton female desire, while in The Provok'd Wife, a sympathetic female character's unhappy marriage serves as a justification for contemplating acting on unfulfilled sexual desire.\
Beginning in the 1680s, the authors of "she-tragedy" were most interested in exploring the pathos behind female spectacle and sexual titillation. Authors such as Southerne (The Fatal Marriage, 1694) and Congreve (The Mourning Bride, 1697) successfully combined sexuality and suffering, the end result being a universal appeal to both men and women. "She-tragedies" began to take on a political function in society, as they reinforced the importance of a stable British nation that hinged upon controlling female sexuality and virtue.\
Plays by Pix, Trotter, and Manley demonstrate a diversity of thought about the position of women. Pix's Ibrahim, the Thirteenth Emperour of the Turks (1696) most clearly imitates the "shetragedies" written by her male counterparts, while Trotter moves away from the conventions and presents women who are in control of their sexuality. Manley makes an even more decisive protofeminist move by never staging female distress; instead she makes men the subject of the sexual gaze.\
With the image of Queen Anne as a powerful female ruler, playwrights began contriving their tragedies with the more political intention of promoting a national virtue. This coincided with a dip in the number of new "she-tragedies" written. One playwright who did remain active during the first part of the century was Rowe; his Fair Penitent (1703) and Tragedy of Jane Shore (1714) were focused on the implications of a woman's lost sexual purity. Rowe connected women's and England's virtue, placing the responsibility for the purity of the nation in the hands of women, whose chastity gained symbolic status. The link between female sexual purity and national purity culminates in Rowe's Tragedy of Lady Jane Gray (1715), where the woman as symbol and object become conflated. Expecting sexual titillation, the audience was disappointed by Rowe's political emphasis. This illustrates, Ms. Marsden argues, that the heroine in the "she-tragedy" was always interpreted as a sexualized object.\
Ms. Marsden's text studies the often ignored genre of "she-tragedy," and her readings of the female body as subject and object adds to theater and gender criticism. She claims that "femalecentered tragedies . . . dominated the stage at the very end of the century." The period is well known for the plethora of comedies, and more evidence is needed for the popularity of these tragedies. Overall, however, Ms. Marsden fascinatingly explores the social and political implications of women in the tragedies of the period.\
}