{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue233;\red223\green223\blue223;\red191\green81\blue5;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c91373;\csgenericrgb\c87451\c87451\c87451;\csgenericrgb\c74902\c31765\c1961;
}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Belv.\
Part! must we part? Oh! am I then forsaken?\
Will my Love cast me off? have my misfortunes\
Offended him so highly, that hee'l leave me?\
Why dragg you from me? whither are you going?\
My Dear! my Life! my Love!\
Jaff.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri1000\sa240
\cf0 Oh Friends!\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 Belv.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri1000\sa240
\cf0 Speak to me.\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 Jaff.\
Take her from my heart,\
Shee'l gain such hold else, I shall ner'e get loose.\
I charge thee take her, but with tender'st care,\
Relieve her Troubles and asswage her sorrows.\
w\
Jaff.\
To you, Sirs, and your Honours, I bequeath her,\
And with her this, when I prove unworthy \'97\
Gives a dagger.\
You know the rest: \'97 Then strike it to her heart;\
And tell her, he, who three whole happy years\
Lay in her Arms, and each kind Night repeated\
The passionate Vows of still encreasing Love,\
Sent that Reward for all her Truth and Sufferings.\
Belv.\
Nay, take my Life, since he has sold it cheaply;\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://quod.lib.umich.edu/e/eebo/A53535.0001.001/33:7?vid=56029"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \cb3 Page \'a024}}\cb3 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \cb1 Or send me to some distant Clime your slave,\
But let it be far off, least my complainings\
Should reach his guilty Bars, and \cf4 \'95\'95\'95\cf0 ke his peace.\
Jaff.\
No 
\i Belvidera,
\i0  I've contriv'd thy honour,\
Trust to my Faith, and be but Fortune kind\
To me, as I'l preserve that faith unbroken,\
When next we meet, I'l lift thee to a height,\
Shall gather all the gazing VVorld about thee,\
To wonder what strange Virtue plac'd thee there.\
But if we ner'e meet more \'97\
Belv.\
Oh thou unkind one,\
Never meet more! have I deserv'd this from you?\
Look on me, tell me; tell me, speak thou dear deceiver,\
VVhy am I separated from thy Love?\
If I am false, accuse me; but if true,\
Don't, prithee don't in poverty forsake me.\
But pitty the sad heart, that's torn with parting.\
Yet hear me! yet recall me \'97\
\pard\pardeftab720

\i \cf0 Ex.
\i0  Ren. Bed. 
\i and
\i0  Belv.\
}