{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\fi700\sl480\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 If Renault is the source of danger in the play, Belvidera is doomed from the very moment Jaffeir gives her over to his control. The lines that entangle Belvidera the two of them are few. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Belvidera pleads with Jaffeir to speak to her, and, already usurping Bedamore\'92s right to speak, Renault rebukes her: \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \'93\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Rise, madam, and command amongst your servants!\'94 (II.iii.219). The content of his speech reinforces the act: even before Jaffeir has left, Renault sees fit to address and even to issue orders to Belvidera. When Jaffeir ignores Belvidera\'92s pleas and instead provides Renault with his dagger, Belvidera acknowledges the new connection by reciprocating Renault\'92s speech: \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1432\fi-4\ri0\pardirnatural
\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\'93Nay, take my life, since he has sold it cheaply,\
Or send me to some distant clime your slave,\
But let it be far off, least my complainings\
Should reach his guilty ears, and shake his peace.\'94 (II.iii.227-30)\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl480\slmult1\pardirnatural
\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 Bevidera\'92s consideration of the reach of her \'93complainings\'94 also reflects an understanding that the ability to speak to someone represents the beginning of a social claim upon them: if Jaffeir is obliged to hear her, it may \'93shake his peace,\'94 but if she can be brought out of his hearing their tie will be severed.  The same understanding of speech is expressed in the plea itself: \'93Speak to me\'94 (II.iii.214) she begs, before she is given over to Renault, and, afterward, \'93Look on me, tell me, tell me, speak\'94(II.iii.240) as Renault and Bedamore carry her away. These unmet demands reflect the implicit belief that to speak to her must mean to acknowledge her\'97 hence the inclusion of \'93look on me\'94 as a parallel command\'97 and that this acknowledgement would be incompatible with the severing of their social tie. By speaking to Renault instead of Belvidera, therefore, and leaving Belvidera with no choice but to address Renault directly herself, Jaffeir does not only use her as an object through which he shores up his own connection to the group, but implicates her in the danger herself.}