{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red204\green102\blue255;\red102\green102\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c84466\c51457\c100000;\cssrgb\c47684\c50481\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 TITLE: \'93The anti-recommendation engine\'94\
\cf2 \
Online marketplaces think they have an economic incentive to recommend sameness, but actually they have an incentive to recommend things you\'92ll buy, and they assume you\'92ll only buy what you\'92ve already bought. \cf0 The field of critical algorithm studies has increasingly revealed\cf3  \cf2 how\cf3  algorithmic recommendation systems impede healthy forms of diversity\cf0 . \cf3 Wendy Chun has diagnosed the problem as a procedural assumption of \'93homophily\'94: the assumption that similarity is the defining characteristic of connection. Whether in digital marketplaces, business decision-making, or social media feeds, an assumption of homophily means that algorithms reproduce their inputs to minimize surprise, diversity, and change. However, there is a latent opportunity in these well-established homophilic algorithms: in order to identify similarity, they must also implicitly identify difference, and the same code can be used to create, rather than eliminate, diversity. One of the many areas affected by homophilic algorithms is that of book recommendations, for both pleasure reading and scholarly reading. Under the supervision of Wendy Chun, and in collaboration with computer scientist Susan Gauch, \cf0 I will take algorithms designed to identify similarities, especially textual similarities, and apply them \'93in reverse.\'94\cf2  There is one way to be the same, but many ways of being different: the main task of the project, then, is how to identify productive forms of difference.\cf3  \cf2 [Readers want to shake things up, but not to a complete extreme \'97 how to avoid recommending far right literature?] \cf0 I will build my own textual recommendation engines\cf2 , and apply them in two areas. One part will offer reading recommendations\cf0  for Project Gutenberg and HathiTrust, calibrated to find the items most different from a source text or texts. I will also build a \'93syllabus diversifier\'94: given a time period, geographic area, and a starting set of texts, it will suggest works which are as different as possible, but still available in print. These tools may playfully improve some people\'92s reading diversity, but they will also contribute new directions for speculative computing in the field of critical algorithm studies.\cf2  [Unpack speculative computing?]}