{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue233;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c93333;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.digitalstudies.org/about/submissions/"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc2 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 https://www.digitalstudies.org/about/submissions/}}
\f1\fs22 \
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Abstract\
Articles must have the main text prefaced by an abstract of approximately 300 words summarising the main arguments and conclusions: a good abstract provides the reader with a complete overview of the article. This must have the heading \'91Abstract\'92 and be easily identified from the start of the main text. The abstract should also be added to the article metadata during submission.\
\
Keywords\
Please provide a list of up to six keywords or phrases that describe the subject matter of your submission, separated by semicolons. The keywords should also be added to the article metadata during submission.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Main text\
The body of the submission should be structured in a logical and easy-to-follow manner. A clear introduction section should be provided that allows non-specialists in the subject an understanding of the publication and a background of the issue(s) involved. The remainder of the article should be divided into appropriate subdivisions and labelled with descriptive headers. As a rule, no more than four levels of subdivision (and subheadings) should be used. Subheadings should use sentence case. If you use more than one level of subdivision and subheading, please indicate this clearly using a style hierarchy (e.g. \'93Heading 1,\'94 \'93Heading 2,\'94 \'93Heading 3\'94 in Word or LibreOffice).\
\
Author roles (multiple-author papers only)\
Articles written by more than one author should describe the contributions of each author. We require the CASRAI CRediT contributor role typology. This typology should be placed in a clearly labelled section after the main body and before the references. Please use the following format. Authors are identified by lowercase initials only (without periods) separated by commas:\
\
Explanation for author order: i.e. \'93Authors are listed in alphabetical order,\'94 \'93Authors are listed in descending order by significance of contribution,\'94 \'93Authors are listed in a randomised order,\'94 etc.;\
Identification of the corresponding author: e.g \'93The corresponding author is xy\'94;\
A table describing author roles, followed by the initials of the relevant author, with each author separated by commas. More than one author may be listed after each role; individual authors commonly fulfil more than one role. Omit any roles not relevant to the article. Please contact the editors if you would like assistance with this requirement. The following is a hypothetical example using all elements in the typology for a six author paper written by ab, cd, ef, gh, ij, and kl.\
Conceptualization: ab,cd,ef;\
Methodology: cd,ef;\
Software: gh,ab,cd;\
Validation: ij;\
Formal Analysis: kl,ab,cd;\
Investigation: ab,cd,ef;\
Resources: ef;\
Data Curation: ab;\
Writing \'96 Original Draft Preparation: ab,cd;\
Writing \'96 Review & Editing: ab,ef;\
Visualization: ef;\
Supervision: ab;\
Project Administration: xy;\
Funding Acquisition: ab.\
\
Works cited\
All references cited within the submission must be formatted according to the Chicago Manual of Style 16th Edition, author-year system and listed at the end of the main text file. Authors are strongly encouraged to use a citation manager to manage and format their references (e.g. Zotero, Paperpile, Mendeley). The journal reserves the right to charge a fee to authors whose references require significant copy-editing, formatting, and/or research during production. Please see below for sample formats.}