{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf810
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The English Novel, 1770\'961829: A Bibliographical Survey of Prose Fic- tion Published in the British Isles. General editors, 
\i Peter Garside
\i0 , 
\i James Raven
\i0 , and 
\i Rainer Sch\'f6werling
\i0 . Volume 1: 1770\'961799. Edited by 
\i James Raven 
\i0 and 
\i Antonia Forster
\i0 , with the assistance of 
\i Stephen Bending
\i0 . Vol- ume 2: 1800\'961829. Edited by 
\i Peter Garside 
\i0 and 
\i Rainer Sch\'f6werling
\i0 , with the assistance of 
\i Christopher Skelton-Foord 
\i0 and 
\i Karin W\'fcnsche. 
\i0 Oxford and New York: Oxford University Press, 2000. Pp. xix+864; xiv+753. 
\fs24 \cb1 \

\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cb3 The entries are richly detailed. In addition to author, title, and pub- lishing information, they give a novel\'92s number of volumes, pagina- tion, format, and price; and they provide references to contemporary reviews, to the libraries holding copies, and to any short-title catalog number. The copy examined by the bibliographers is specified along with its shelf-list number. The list of libraries is valuable for future his- torians, since most titles have few extant first-edition copies. The notes include information about dedicatees, issue variations, subscription lists, included advertisements, subsequent editions, translations, and attributions. The first volume has fuller notes, with extracts of reviews from the 
\i Monthly Review 
\i0 and the 
\i Critical Review. 
\i0\fs24 \cb1 \

\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cb3 As one would expect, titles with no known first-edition copy occur more frequently in the first volume. Nevertheless, fully 90 percent of its 1,421 titles have survived, while in the second volume over 98 percent of its 2,256 titles have. 
\fs24 \cb1 \

\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cb3 Moreover, of the hundred titles in the second volume that are known to survive only in a copy from the remarkable Schloss Corvey Library, a mere five were not listed in the 
\i English Catalogue of Books 
\i0 or not noticed in the reviews. This suggests the bibliographers have drawn their net very tightly in applying their finding methods to the short-title catalogs and that only a handful of novel titles are likely to have eluded them. 
\fs24 \cb1 \
p.624: Almost all of these novels have long since been deservedly forgotten. -- Highlighted Apr 22, 2017\
p.624: How much rewriting of the novel\'92s literary history lies ahead is suggested by a comparison of James Raven\'92s table of the sixty-seven novels published from 1770 to 1799 that went to five editions or more by 1829 with Gary Kelly\'92s English Fiction of the Romantic Period, 1789\'961830 (London: Longman, 1989). Thirty-nine of those very popular novels first appeared in the overlapping years from 1789 to 1799, but Kelly mentions only twenty of them. -- Highlighted Apr 22, 2017\
p.624: This bibliographical survey shows that novel production does not follow either the exponential growth pattern of industrialized paper production shown by D. C. Coleman in The British Paper Industry, 1495\'961860: A Study in Industrial Growth (Oxford: Clarendon, 1958) or the parallel rise of all printed material, based on Michael Crump\'92s estimates in the Eighteenth-Century Short-Title Catalogue\
p.625: Novels accounted for at most 8 percent of all books published and were a niche business dominated by publishers like William Lane of Minerva Press fame and Henry Colburn of silver-fork-novel renown.  -- Highlighted Apr 22, 2017\
p.625: the number of new novel titles published averages about 80 a year after 1795, and reaches peaks of 99 in 1799, 111 in 1808, and 99 in 1824 -- Highlighted Apr 22, 2017\
p.625: Only novels that had two or more editions were likely to have been purchased by individuals. And only those authors who had an established reputation were published in first editions larger than five hundred copies. -- Highlighted Apr 22, 2017\

\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cb3 Raven presents the numbers from the tables oddly as a five-year moving average to create a smoother curve, a method that does not make sense for these novels because they are reliably dated (often through the editors\'92 efforts) and because their postdating is generally limited to a few months. 
\fs24 \cb1 \
p.626: We should remember that the fluctuations in new novel publication are real and that they record the connections between book production and the then current economic and political conditions -- Highlighted Apr 22, 2017\
p.626: The reviews show that novels and novelists were long considered unrespectable. As a result of their lack of respectability, most authors at the period\'92s beginning chose to be and have remained anonymous. -- Highlighted Apr 22, 2017}