{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf820
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red38\green38\blue38;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\csgray\c20000;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Alex Wetmore, 
\i Men of Feeling in Eighteenth-Century Literature: Touching Fic- 
\i0\b0\fs24 \

\i\b\fs26\fsmilli13333 tion 
\i0 (Basingstoke, UK: Palgrave, 2013) 
\b0\fs24 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\sa120\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs22 \cf3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \'93Alex Wetmore argues for the congruity between the printed bodies of sentimental books and the mechanized men of feeling presented within their pages.\'94\
\'93Sentimental novels by Henry Brooke, laurence Sterne, tobias Smollett, and Henry Mackenzie are the focus of Men of Feeling\'94\
\'93Wetmore introduces a useful term, \'93corporeal defamiliarization,\'94 to denote how sentimental novels denaturalize their status as touchable book-objects.\'94\

\b \'93Wetmore compellingly argues that sentimental self-consciousness can be understood to have the matter of the book and the body at its fraught center. Sentimental self-reflexivity, therefore, is not the metafictional, proto-postmodern irony that our moment in history might tempt us to identify it as being.\'94
\b0 \
\'93sentimental  fiction\'92s corporeal defamiliarization works in tandem with the genre\'92s palliative goal of expanding and extending nervous sensibilities.\'94\
\'93Wetmore argues that 
\b toward the end of the century, the connective tissue binding sentimentality to self-referentiality was severed. newly suspicious approaches to sensibility are deployed in works across the political spectrum during this period
\b0 : for example, Mary robinson\'92s The Natural Daughter (1799); Elizabeth Hamilton\'92s Memoirs of Modern Philosophers (1800); and robert Bage\'92s Hermsprong (1796). Each text reworks devices of corporeal defamiliarization deployed by Smollett, Mackenzie, and Sterne, respectively.\'94\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl560\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs48 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
2009 S
\fs34\fsmilli17333 ympathy 
\fs48 m
\fs34\fsmilli17333 achineS
\fs48 : m
\fs34\fsmilli17333 en of 
\fs48 f
\fs34\fsmilli17333 eeling and the 
\fs48 a
\fs34\fsmilli17333 utomaton 
\fs24 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\sa120\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs22 \cf3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\
\'93In contrast to post-Romantic modernity\'92s \'93axiomatic presupposition of a deep inner core of selfhood,\'94 this ancien r\'e9gime approached the borders of the self as \'93mutable, malleable, unreliable, divisible, replaceable, transferable, manipulable, escapable, or otherwise fuzzy around the edges.\'94\'94\
p.40: By blurring the lines separating men of feeling from feeling machines, these canonical sentimental novels stand in contrast to writing from the earlier part of the century, in which the realms of sensibility and technology were typically represented as distinct -- Highlighted Apr 21, 2017\
p.40:  (1) the man of feeling\'92s hyper-reactive sensibilities raise questions not only about the stability of gender, as Wahrman argues, but also about the stability and certainty of eighteenth-century boundaries between humans and machines -- Highlighted Apr 21, 2017\
p.40: 2) perhaps more importantly, 
\b the porous borders between men of feeling and feeling machines point to important shifts in the relationship between the mechanical and the virtuous. This, in turn, provides a new understanding of how the culture of sensibility both engages with and resists the hegemonic discourse of civic humanism
\b0  -- Highlighted Apr 21, 2017}