{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 Comedies are, it turns out, the most straightforward networks to identify. They have fewer nodes, with high graph density. Although comedies often have multiple subplots, we find that these separate stories do not result in highly-separated networks. We theorize that comedic networks are strongly shaped by the final \'93resolution\'94 scenes, which bring the cast together for a restoration of social {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://B00C74A6-59D1-4408-A517-2184D3D9D5D4"}}{\fldrslt order}}, and therefore create edges knitting the network together. (See, for example, 
\i A Midsummer Night\'92s Dream
\i0 .) The average eigenvector centrality of the characters in comedies is also much higher than in tragedies or histories; this suggests that many more of the characters in a comedy are \'93important,\'94 reflecting a focus on ensemble stories.\
In contrast, histories feature highly dispersed networks, with large numbers of very minor {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://2C773903-9A76-4951-94BD-24ACB136352D"}}{\fldrslt characters,}} such as \'93First,\'94 \'93Second,\'94 and \'93Third\'94 members of groups like soldiers and ambassadors, who each interject briefly in a single scene. Connections form chains of acquaintance with little overlap, so even the monarchs have low eigenvector centrality. Whereas the directional edges in comedies tended to be reciprocal and balanced, in histories they are often unidirectional, as characters give orders or statements to each other\
Tragedies are more formally unpredictable, and sit somewhere ambiguously between comedies and histories. Many have a dense core with a secondary ring of more peripheral characters. Many have a node who forms a distinct, singular centre of the network, connected to a large number of nodes that are only sparsely connected to each other. Directional edges are, as in histories, often unreciprocated, and the \'93tragic hero\'94 nodes are particularly likely to have very heavily weighted edges connecting outward (indicating that they have given long speeches) with light to no reciprocation.}