{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf810
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red26\green26\blue26;\red255\green255\blue255;\red62\green0\blue63;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c13333\c13333\c13333;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c31373\c0\c31373;
}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300

\f0\fs25\fsmilli12800 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Hello from Detroit!\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300
\cf2 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300
\cf2 \cb3 That's so exciting about the chapbook! It throws a wrench in the works, but having two plagiarized works to draw on could bring out some really interesting new conclusions (or significantly strengthen the existing ones).\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300
\cf2 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300
\cf2 \cb3 1. The most important idea was that men and women don't write substantially different gothic texts.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300
\cf2 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300
\cf2 \cb3 2. Each individual sentence is very clear. They feel a little disjointed, but once I read through the abstract the whole picture fell into place. The only place where I could use a little more context is the last sentence. That's in part because I'm missing some of the vocabulary and background knowledge, and in part because I'm not sure how your analysis connects to that conclusion. It sounds like an idea with some sweeping implications, so it might deserve a little more context.\'a0\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300
\cf2 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300
\cf2 \cb3 3. I think you could maybe trim down a little here:\'a0\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300
\cf4 \cb1 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300
\cf4 \cb3 "This paper turns to the popular Gothic, to ask whether the hundreds of female Gothic writers created categorically different works than their hundreds of male peers."\cb1 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 To\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300
\cf2 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300
\cf2 \cb3 "This paper examines hundreds of popular Gothic works to ask whether female writers created categorically different works than their male peers."\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300
\cf2 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300
\cf2 \cb3 26 to 21 words--not a huge difference, but it might give you some room elsewhere. That change depends on whether the goal of "hundreds" in the original sentence was to indicate the overall size of your sample or the large number of female gothic writers in the eighteenth century... my version would cover the former, but is less effective at communicating the latter.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300
\cf2 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300
\cf2 \cb3 Let me know how it goes! I love being a part of your process with these things.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300
\cf2 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300
\cf2 \cb3 Love and luck,\'a0\cb1 \
}