{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red252\green111\blue207;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c100000\c54098\c84731;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 [Transition: mathematically, the norm is always going to be dominated by that which both sexes can participate in. (The maximum prevalence an exclusively-female trait can have is 50%). So let\'92s look at tags for which women or men are overrepresented.]\
\
Figure <$n:figs:femaleFranks>: [TODO: add a table of tags in which women are over-represented.]\
\
\cf0 The demographics of Frank\'92s genre tags seem to support a category of the \'93Female Gothic\cf2 ,\cf0 \'94\cf2  and even point toward a definition of it.\cf0 \
Frank\'92s indexes slightly more female authors than {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://4F5E4B34-308D-4BA4-BFB5-A2ECFBC3B0F3"}}{\fldrslt male}}. Three of the most popular tags are even more female-dominated than his woman-heavy sample would lead us to expect:{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://D792CDEF-F3E5-4FC0-A26D-DF3513CC6F52"}}{\fldrslt  43% of Frank\'92s corpus is written by women, but that 43% is responsible for 50% of the \'93terror\'94 works, 65% of the \'93Radcliffean\'94 works, and a striking 77% of the \'93sentimental.\'94}} Frank \cf2 thus implicitly describes\cf0  a Radcliffean, sentimental, terror Gothic which is also a women\'92s Gothic.\cf2  The conventional narrative of sentimental literature is strikingly similar to that of Gothic literature. [Quote some folks about sentimental literature.] To find the sentimental tied to the female Gothic here initially points toward a revival of an older history of the Gothic. [TODO: pull in all that stuff from my previous drafts]\
\
Figure <$n:figs:maleFranks>: [TODO: add a table of tags in which men are over-represented.]\
\
\cf0 Men outnumber women in the \'93Germanic\'94 tag (which encompasses \'93German\'94, \'93Germanic\'94, \'93Schauerroman\'94, \'93Rauberroman\'94, and \'93Ritterroman\'94) \'97 of these 29 Germanic Gothics, 18 are by men (62%). \'93Horror\'94, too, is disproportionately male: 42% of \'93horror\'94 works are by men, a proportion that is solidly above their baseline 31%, though not astonishing. \'93Lewisite\'94 is about the same (46% male). \cf2 \
\cf0 When a tag is \cf2 strongly \cf0 male dominated, it generally applies to only a few novels \cf2 [TODO: \cf0 FOR EXAMPLE\'85\cf2 ]\cf0 , giving the impression of a one-off rather than a gendered school.\cf2 \
[But these could just be Frank\'92s biases in how to categorize, rather than something meaningful.]}