{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf820
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Revamping Literary History 
\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf2 Jennie Batchelor, 
\i Women\'92s Work: Labour, Gender, Authorship, 1750\'961830 
\i0 (Manchester and New York: Manchester University Press and Palgrave, 2010). Pp. x + 249. \'a360.00 
\b0\fs24 \

\b\fs26\fsmilli13333 Susan Carlile, ed., 
\i Masters of the Marketplace: British Women Novelists of the 1750s 
\i0 (Bethlehem, PA: Lehigh University Press, 2011). Pp. 277. $60.00 
\b0\fs24 \
p.610: Carlile\'92s collection insists on how professionally successful these writers women were, and how influential in determining the direction of the novel. Batchelor investigates how women thought about their literary labors and how these perceptions evolved over the course of the century. Both books seek to augment traditionally male-centered literary history and to provide new ways of understanding the contribution of gender to the construction of the novel. -- Highlighted Apr 21, 2017\
\
Page 3\
In the decades during which Smith was writing, Batchelor reminds us, literary careers were being professionalized (as can be seen in debates over copyright and the rise of literary reviews) as well as masculinized. Smith\'92s response to this cultural shift was to emphasize in her prefaces, footnotes, and semi-autobiographical plots the domestic labor that \'93both occasioned and impeded her literary career\'94 (91), and to insist upon what hard work it all was.\
\
Page 4\
Batchelor\'92s careful tracking of the way in which the discourse of literary authorship came to reinforce the social constructions of gender will help us to historicize what we know about women writers, and to reinterpret what they said about their authorial labors. \
}