{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Attempting to compare the two models raises the prospect of combining them. It\'92s been an open question to this point whether Frank\'92s Gothic types respond to actually gendered usage, or impose their interpretations based on subsequent gendered expectation. When it comes to assessing a work as \'93polemical\'94 versus \'93didactic\'94, for example, the tone difference is a subjective interpretation which could easily be influenced by his knowledge of the author\'92s gender. In contrast, Tracy\'92s boolean motifs \'97 although they may be prone to false negatives, and are certainly vague in interpretive detail \'97 are at least safe from these interpretive false positives. We can thus evaluate the potentially-gendered basis of Frank\'92s type assessments by considering the motifs associated with each tag. Because, as we saw earlier, Tracy\'92s motifs only render certain kinds of literary features visible, we are now doubly prone to false negatives. However, we can still hope for some true positives. In correlating the two bibliographies, I narrow my attention to the 178 texts included in both works, and ask: does knowing Frank gave a work a certain tag tell us anything about what motifs it probably has? In particular, can the \'93horror\'94 and \'93terror\'94 tags be distinguished from each other and from the mainstream by particular motifs?}