{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\deftab720
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\fi700\sl480\slmult1\qj\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 The narrator\'92s other uses of this rhetorical technique are not generally so disingenuous, but neither do they tend toward clarity. As Figure 4 shows, only nine instances (11%) actively obfuscate the meaning that turns out to be most consistent with the novel\'92s later developments, but only twenty-four (29%) state that meaning directly. Classifying Fielding\'92s prose on a relative scale of obscurity is something of an exercise in madness, and yet I do stand by my assessment that the statement \'93to say Truth, he had for some Time become sensible of the irresistible Power of her Charms\'94 (IV.xiii) constitutes a blunt one. The pluperfect verb, the non-specific specification of \'93for some time,\'94 the understatement of \'93become sensible of\'94 \'97 these details of prose style cushion our conclusion that Jones is in love. This statement is blunt only on a relative scale. And yet, on that relative scale, is is only a single independent clause, with an unambiguous meaning, with which we are meant to concur \'97 making it far more straightforward than much of the novel. Slightly fewer than a third of the narrator\'92s explicit statements of truth achieve these heights of clarity; nearly half, instead, are similarly unambiguous in meaning, but markedly verbose: \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li1432\fi-4\ri720\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf2 to say Truth, I believe 
\i Honour
\i0  could never have prevailed on her to leave 
\i Upton
\i0  without her seeing 
\i Jones
\i0 , had it not been for those two strong Instances of a Levity in his Behaviour, so void of Respect, and indeed so highly inconsistent with any Degree of Love and Tenderness in great and delicate Minds. (XII.viii)\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li1432\fi-4\ri720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\sl480\slmult1\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Again, we can accept this truth without needing to work too hard to interpret it, but the sheer length of the overall sentence \'97 and its partial ventriloquism at the end
\fs16 \cf2 \super  
\fs24 \cf2 \nosupersub \'97 render it far from \'91blunt\'92 even on a relative scale. Whether blunt or verbose, nearly three-quarters of the time (72%), the narrator turns out to be as honest as he claims.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\fi700\sl480\slmult1\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Of perhaps greater interest, however, are the twenty-three statements where he is either oblique or obsfucatory. The distinction between these two terms is a careful one: an oblique statement is one which is true on its face, but which some interpretive work by the reader will reveal to have further meaning; of Molly\'92s beauty, for example, it is accurate that \'93to say the Truth, Youth and florid Health had a very considerable Share in the Composition\'94 (IV.vi) but the reader ought also to notice that this faint praise continues a trend of litotic qualification, and thus does not constitute the whole truth. We are meant to supplement the narrator\'92s statements with our own understanding \'97 that Molly\'92s looks might have some appeal, but do not constitute refined beauty \'97 but we do not need to overturn the meaning of the original. The narrator expects us to grasp his meaning, but he is being oblique. This rhetorical playfulness crosses into obfuscation when the reader\'92s interpretive work requires actively rejecting some level of what the narrator appears to be saying. When Partridge fears that Jones has stolen money, for example, the narrator says, \'93to confess the Truth, the Reader, unless he should suspect it was owing to the Generosity of Lady 
\i Bellaston
\i0 , can hardly imagine any other\'94 source of the funds (XIII.viii) \'97 but, of course, the reader immediately understands that the money is from Lady Bellaston.  The narrator has carefully structured his conditional such that it does not actually contradict the assessment that Lady Bellaston is the source of the funds: it is only the narrator\'92s tone which gives more weight to robbery as the explanation. However, this reader, at least, can easily imagine additional sources of money that would perhaps be less likely than Lady Bellaston but nonetheless more likely than theft. Moreover, even in understanding Lady Bellaston to be the source, we attribute her gifts not to a general \'93generosity,\'94 but to her particular relationship with Jones. This particular obfuscatory confession of truth is not intentionally leading us into error, but to navigate it correctly we must overturn the narrator\'92s meaning.\
}