{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red38\green38\blue38;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c19804\c19804\c19804;}
\deftab720
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\fi700\sl480\slmult1\qj\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
John Bender and Joseph Drury both see Fielding\'92s novel as a carefully-constructed experiment, built to educate its readers via the same method as contemporaneous science. In presenting its details of cause and effect, the novel enables the experience of \'93surrogate witnessing\'94 (Bender 291, Drury 52) which formed the cornerstone of the mass transmission of eighteenth century natural philosophy experiments. Bender details a history of moral philosophers using novels the same way natural philosophers use staged experiments.
\b \cf3  
\b0 \cf2  Drury further establishes the importance of theatricality and showmanship in that staging, arguing for the importance of spectacle in promoting the mainstream popularity of new science. Both present a framework in which 
\i Tom Jones
\i0  participates in an established tradition of fabricated empirical writing, able to convey worldly truth despite being fictive. Fielding\'92s prefatory dedication seems to endorse this view: addressing his patron, George Lyttleton, regarding his desire \'93to recommend goodness and innocence,\'94 he says,\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li1432\fi-4\ri720\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf2 This honest Purpose you have been pleased to think I have attained: And to say the Truth, it is likeliest to be attained in Books of this Kind; for an Example is a Kind of Picture, in which Virtue becomes as it were an Object of Sight, and strikes us with an Idea of that Loveliness, which 
\i Plato
\i0  asserts there is in her naked Charms. (n. pag.)
\fs16 \super \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li1432\fi-4\ri0\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf2 \nosupersub \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\sl480\slmult1\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf2 The novel is here synonymous with \'93an example,\'94 and can present a representative picture of virtue which is directly applicable to real virtue. It does not need to be the elusive reality described in Plato\'92s allegory of the cave \'97 it needs only provide a shadow, from which that reality may be inferred. Moreover, the artificial nature of the experiment actively assists in its utility. An experiment, unlike reality, is teleologically constructed to produce intelligible results. Thus, Bender argues, \'93Fielding\'92s continual presence in Tom Jones\'94 assists in the novel\'92s project of producing knowledge because it \'93points to the work\'92s organization of the scattered experience of the characters into the focused and methodical order of experiment\'94 (290). The audience must be able to see \'93the machinery\'94 (Drury 60) behind the stagecraft for its performance to be generalizable into knowledge that persists even after the curtains have closed (68).}