{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 We have also made these networks available and manipulable online. These networks may be of interest to scholars of Shakespeare, and allow another approach to discussions of generic hybridity in early modern drama. The project as a whole may also provide a way to make comparisons within large corpora of plays.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400
\cf2 Our first 37 networks are available online in an interactive format to allow others to pose their own questions for future work on Shakespeare\'92s networks.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 However, since the parser is highly extensible and can be used with any plays available in TEI encoding, future work need not be restricted to the Early Modern period. It need not even be restricted to works written in English. We are implementing features to translate between different XML tag sets to further extend its applicability.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Narrative structures and the social position of characters within their fictional worlds can both be difficult to concretely articulate and compare. Our networks of the well-studied works of Shakespeare can provide a baseline against which to contextualize analysis of these elements in works for which there is far less critical consensus.}