{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Our inquiry considers the speech interactions of characters within plays as a proxy for broad narrative structures. We analyze computationally-generated social networks of 37 plays by Shakespeare to explore metrics for nuanced comparison within large corpora of comparable plays.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Because dramatic performances enact social encounters, social network analysis translates surprisingly well to fictional societies. Stiller et al. have shown that social networks in Shakespeare\'92s play mirror those of real human interactions, particularly in size, clustering, and maximum degrees of seperation (2003). These similarities lend validity to discussions of individual characters filling specific roles in their social networks, particularly in terms of connectedness and cliques.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 However, as fictions, these networks are shaped not only by sociological principles, but also by narrative structures. Moretti uses social networks to examine the plots of three Shakespearean tragedies, and to contrast the structure of chapters in English and Chinese novels (2011). Alberich et al. (2002) and Sparavigna (2013) also discuss the interplay between social and narrative constraints on networks. We emphasize this distinction to look for specifically literary features of our networks.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Recent papers presented at DH2017 sought ways to richly quantify the details of one or two plays (Fischer et al. 2017, Tonra et al. 2017). At another scale, Algee-Hewitt examined 3,439 plays by looking only at the Gini Coefficient of each play\'92s eigenvector centrality (2017). With our three dozen plays, we attempt to strike a fruitful middle ground in the inevitable balancing act between detail and scale. Each play is considered individually, but at a level of abstraction which allows rapid and direct comparisons.
\f1\fs24 \
}