{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Our inquiry considers the speech interactions of characters within plays as a proxy for narrative structure.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400
\cf2 Because dramatic performances enact social encounters, social network analysis translates surprisingly well to fictional societies. Stiller et al. have shown that social networks in Shakespeare\'92s play mirror those of real human interactions, particularly in size, clustering, and maximum degrees of seperation (2003). These similarities lend validity to discussions of individual characters filling specific roles in their social networks, particularly in terms of connectedness and cliques.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 However, as fictions, these networks are shaped not only by sociological principles, but also by narrative structures. Moretti uses social networks to examine the plots of three Shakespearean tragedies, and to contrast the structure of chapters in English and Chinese novels (2011). Alberich et al. (2002) and Sparavigna (2013) also discuss the interplay between social and narrative constraints on networks. We emphasize this distinction to look for specifically literary features of our networks.}