{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 \'93Whereas histories and tragedies often have similar values across our metrics, comedies\
tend to be distinct\'94. How do we know this? Haven\'92t seen histories or tragedies yet to make any\
judgements on this front!\
\'93Their smaller casts are more interconnected, which can be visually observed in Fig. 1 above,\
and can be measured in their networks\'92 higher density, lower eccentricity, and shorter path\
length\'94. This is a very vague claim, which needs a lot more scaffolding. What is the average cast\
size for a shx play? Does it vary by genre? Gender? # of lines spoken by primary vs secondary\
characters? (etc). I also don\'92t know what you mean by eccentricity here; all vocabulary related to\
methods should be in the \'91methods\'92 section.\
\'93All of these measures indicate that most characters in a comedy will eventually speak to most\
other characters. Although comedies often have multiple subplots, we find that these separate\
stories do not result in highly-separated networks.\
\'93All of these measures indicate that most characters in a comedy will eventually speak to most\
other characters. Although comedies often have multiple subplots, we find that these separate\
stories do not result in highly-separated networks.\'94 Give an illustrative to back this up \'96 you use\
MSND (a play full of subplots) as a wonderful contra-example, but I currently have no idea\
which one it is in the figure above, or how it stands up against other plays like M4M or AYLI,\
which have smaller but still relevant subplots. (I note that Figure 2 is later down the page, which\
is a limitation of format currently; but it looks like there is a total subplot regarding Puck and the\
Lovers to me?!)\
\

\b \'93We theorize that comedic networks are strongly shaped by their final \'93resolution\'94 scenes, which typically bring the cast together for a restoration of social order, and therefore create edges knitting the network together\'94 \'96 I feel like this may be the operational thesis of your paper, which is why burying it here is very strange.
\b0  First of all, if this is the primary question you are seeking to tackle, it should be significantly more foregrounded as the RQ of the paper. Second of all, if this is your primary RQ, see Hope & Witmore (2010) on the comedic use of \'91I\'92 and \'91we\'92 in Shakespeare quarterly: we know this is a linguistic feature of comedy, so we will now test if the networks match this defining characteristic. (See early comments re: hanging this off an established publication\'92s claim about genre).\
\
I would be very reluctant to use \'91abstract\'92 as a verb. If anything you are illustrating!}