{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 Genre is a ubiquitous subject for computational \'93distant reading\'94 of literature. Work on Shakespeare has a particularly long history of genre studies, in which scholars have interpreted and revised the taxonomy of \'93comedy,\'94 \'93history,\'94 and \'93tragedy\'94 since the First Folio collected Shakespeare\'92s plays into those categories. We connect these two scholarly traditions through a distant reading of Shakespeare\'92s genre. Our mode of abstraction is the network: we model each individual play as a web of speech passing between characters who share a stage. We use these computationally-generated network graphs with several machine classifiers, asking whether, and how, these network graphs can distinguish between Shakespeare\'92s comedies, tragedies, and histories. We discuss the implications of our classifications for the comedies, which are most distinct; the histories and tragedies, which are connected; and finally, the plays of contested genre, for which we offer our classifiers\'92 identifications. Dramatic genre, we argue, plays out in who the characters stand on the stage with, and who they talk to and listen to. Our networks of the well-studied works of Shakespeare provide a baseline against which to contextualize genre analysis of works for which there is far less critical conversation.}