{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red26\green26\blue26;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c13333\c13333\c13333;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 [
\f1\fs20 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Genre in the first folio is perceived as being stable, yet remains a big question in Shakespeare studies.
\f0\fs22 \cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 ]\
\
Genre, as one of the eternally difficult questions of literary study, is a ubiquitous subject for computational \'93distant reading\'94 of literature. In setting out many of the \'93perennial doubts [that] plague genre theory,\'94 Daniel Chandler notes as one source of difficulty that \'93[p]articular features which are characteristic of a genre are not normally unique to it; it is their relative prominence, combination and functions which are distinctive\'94 (1977). Often, the relative prominence of these distinctive features is obscured by the richness of individual literary texts. By introducing a layer of abstraction, distant reading allows for a new angle of study. This new angle of study enables both macroanalysis (Jockers, 2013) and what Hoover terms \'93microanalysis,\'94 which uses \'93style variation within a single work or author as a way of better understanding authorship and style\'94 (2016).\
Our work carries out a microanalysis of dramatic genre, taking the widely-studied works of Shakespeare as our case study. Work on Shakespeare has a particularly long history of genre studies. Scholars have been interpreting and revising the taxonomy of \'93comedy,\'94 \'93history,\'94 and \'93tragedy\'94 since the First Folio collected Shakespeare\'92s plays into those categories. We work within the tradition that examines First Folio designations. We employ distant reading to confirm some ways that genre has been conceived in these plays, but also to reconsider them, and to suggest new tools to think about the problem cases.\
Our mode of abstraction is the network: we model each individual play as a web of speech passing between characters who share a stage. Ours is not the first project to apply social network analysis to literary study{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://75402811-F1AA-4531-8422-21776B7C54E6"}}{\fldrslt .}} Where we differ from much past work is in our precise focus on linguistic encounters in the space of the stage, rather than rougher metrics like appearance within the same scene. To draw the edges between nodes that make up our networks, we pay close attention to who is on stage, and who can (probably) hear them {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://06FCF10D-BC2C-4B28-875F-7148A6CD96CC"}}{\fldrslt speak}} \'97 and how often they speak, how much they speak at once, and whether people speak back to them. Our model of each play thus renders the speech act of the characters as a fundamental \'93unit\'94 of a play\'92s script, and our core hypothesis is thus that genre, in drama, will be expressed in the relations between characters.}