{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf810
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\fi700\sl480\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \'93
\fs26 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Moretti has experimented with scientific and social-scientific methods, including mapping, systems theory, the statistical analysis of genres, evolutionary modeling to account for liter- ary competition, and cognitive methods. The most pointed and salient of his interventions has been his forwarding of the method of 
\i distant reading
\i0 .
\fs16 \up8 13 
\fs26 \up0 As an explicit refusal of the key method in literary studies, Moretti\'92s embrace of reading from a distance should be understood as both a departure from traditional hermeneutics and a shift in the habitus of literary critical practice. Drawing on the tactics of the Annales School as well as of quantitative sociology, and borrowing on a model of collaboration current in the sciences, Moretti argues for the importance of scholarship at \'93second hand.\'94 Distant reading refuses the richness of the singular literary text in favor of the production of knowledge on an enlarged scale. By sacrificing richness\'97and turning it into data\'97he is able to handle greater quantities of material, and to observe literature as a vast geographical and historical system. Moretti is clear about what is to be gained through a refusal of the messy intimacies of traditional forms of humanistic inquiry: scientific authority, generality, knowledge, legitimacy. He is also clear that it will entail losses: richness, singularity, exceptionality, the text. In refusing the \'93theological exercise\'94 of close, sustained textual analysis, Moretti also turns away from the intimacy of ethical pedagogy, mediated, as Hunter suggests, through a sustained encounter with an exemplary literary text.\'94 (374)}