{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf810
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs37\fsmilli18667 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Novels of the 1750s \

\fs24 p.3: So let us say we now have, from the old list and new additions, a combined canon of twenty texts for these ten years. This is already at the limit for most specialists, and it still leaves out more than 200 novels\'97everything less definable, appealing, or polemically useful. Someone may eventually produce a detailed study of these texts, the sort of thing that Jerry Beasley did for the 1740s, John Richetti for the early eighteenth century, and J. M. S. Tompkins for later fiction. In the meantime, it certainly seems important to dig around a bit more. -- Highlighted Apr 22, 2017\
p.4: To keep digging is to find much that is predictable or derivative but also tomarvel at all the variabilities and innovations. With its disorienting jumble of rogue tales,spiritual biographies, scandal memoirs, pornography, fable, and romance, every book-selling season reminds us that a handful of canonical texts and the teleologies of literaryhistory never give us more than a partial and selective picture of this genre.  -- Highlighted Apr 22, 2017a\
p.5:  Yet the tradition of sentimental passivity combines more than one expects with older traditions of heroic femininity. -- Highlighted Apr 22, 2017\
p.5: Another surprise is just how much goes on as if formal realism had never happened. -- Highlighted Apr 22, 2017\
p.6: Entirely contrary questions are raised by the bizarrely detailed circumstantiality of so much early fiction. Again and again, some individualizing detail makes us realize we are meeting real people and hearing their speech, with all their quirks and verbal tics -- Highlighted Apr 22, 2017\
p.6: With no small number of texts, the taxonomic drive just grinds to a halt. Every season contains its cluster of wholly uncategorizable fictions.  -- Highlighted Apr 22, 2017\
p.7: By far the most neglected genre of mid-century fiction, and meriting special attention, are the dozens of episodic comic novels that appeared in the wake of Tom Jones and Roderick Random. The recent scholarly interest in sentimentalism has obscured this comic tradition  -- Highlighted Apr 22, 2017\
p.9: These are heterogeneous texts\'97stuffed, like so many early novels, with all manner of incongruous contents.  -- Highlighted Apr 22, 2017\
p.9: Much of this humour is distasteful if not repugnant to modern readers. Blind men are led into walls. The vicar throws up his dinner when our hero convinces him he\'92s eaten a dead dog. -- Highlighted Apr 22, 2017\
p.9: Yet these books, a major part of the fiction market, were in no way distinguished from what we now accept as \'91literary\'92 novels.  -- Highlighted Apr 22, 2017\
p.10: Ramble novels thus confound some deep-seated assumptions about eighteenth-century fiction and how it was read. Circumstantial realism and the representation of consciousness\'97the characteristics that made other early fictions significant to Watt\'92s The Rise of the Novel\'97were manifestly less important than amusement. Packed with diverse contents and so frankly inviting readers to pick and choose, ramble novels also support recent findings about early modern reading practices. Novels, we now know, were read in bits and pieces, intermittently and in combination with other texts\'97a far cry from the legendary young ladies glued to their romances. -- Highlighted Apr 22, 2017\
p.10: A
\b nd then one starts to notice odd comic traces in more didactic and sentimental novels.
\b0  Yorick\'92s encounter with the dwarf in A Sentimental Journey -- Highlighted Apr 22, 2017\
}