{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c99997\c99999;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;
\csgenericrgb\c100000\c99997\c99999;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
This paper emphasizes the continuities between computational approaches to literature and the venerable tradition of archival bibliographical research. Everybody takes the generic categories of \'93male\'94 and \'93female\'94 Gothic for granted, though we quibble over what makes up each one. My interest is in something less fine-grained: not the exempary literary aesthetic of the Female Gothic, but the popular social phrenomenon of a 
\i women\'92s
\i0  Gothic. I use two qualitative bibliographies of the Gothic. My method consists of trying out different \'93models\'94 and seeing which ones are fruitful. Not all models are computational, as Leah Price\'92s work on editing and the mental editing of reading proves. Each of my bibliographies is itself a model, which I amplify through my computational methods. \cf2 \cb1 I find that \cf4 men\'92s and women\'92s schools do indeed exist, but that they do not map neatly to a set of female/male terror/horror Radcliffe/Lewis binaries, and that both gendered schools are dwarfed by a non-gendered Gothic mainstream. \cf2 \cb5 As a model of the Gothic, Tracy\'92s bibliography elides continuities to increase its sensitivity to points of difference. It treats each novel as a collection of discrete elements, only one of which is likely to be of interest to a given scholar. I examine the potential predictive power of each motif. An identifiable gendered school immediately emerges: 38 distinctly male-authored {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://2597F98B-3D99-4C35-A5B9-E2CF9063F312"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \cb5 motifs}} indicate a men\'92s Gothic defined by largely the things we would expect men to dominate. In contrast to this abundance of male-dominated tropes, female-authored tropes are elusive. More than half of the motifs under consideration are not strongly gendered in either direction. This motif-based model of the early Gothic suggests that, rather than a balanced oppositions of Radcliffe\'92s female terror Gothic versus Lewis\'92s male horror Gothic, the genre as a popular movement was defined by a less-sensationalist (possibly Radcliffean, possibly terror-mode) non-genered Gothic mainstream, with a subset of male horror Gothic writers making up a minor tradition within it. Although it attempts to model the same field, Frederick Frank\'92s bibliography encourages a very different understanding of the texts he indexes. Unlike Tracy, Frank is interested in not just what happens, but in 
\i \cf2 \cb5 how
\i0 \cf2 \cb5  it happens. I have separated out each strand of influence within his complex \'93Gothic types\'94  by dividing each \'93type\'94 into a set of tags, and tallied the uses of each tag. Frank\'92s model of the multiplicity of Gothic subgenres, in the reverse of Tracy, shows an identifiable women\'92s Gothic, whereas the men\'92s Gothic is elusive. Frank presents us with a Radcliffean, sentimental, terror Gothic which is also a women\'92s Gothic. This [women\'92s Gothic] is exactly he sort of [genre/trend] which would be invisible in Tracy\'92s model, because it doesn\'92t operate by identifiable motif. A men\'92s Gothic is more elusive in Frank\'92s model. In Frank\'92s Gothic typology, the Gothic is not monolithic: [works use elements of things, but things mostly come from other places/ are interconnected] Does knowing Frank gave a work a certain tag tell us anything about what motifs it probably has? For both \'93terror\'94 and \'93horror\'94, we can examine the motifs which distinguish it from the baseline mainstream Gothic, and which motifs distinguish it from the other tag. There are some horror motifs, and they seem reasonable.  [All of these motifs paint a distinct horror tradition, which our earlier models also allow us to see as male.]  [But it complicates our understanding of \'93horror\'94 by introducing motifs which previously were not male-dominated enough to get mentally put in that bucket.] The \'93terror\'94 tag, as expected, is less strongly defined by its motifs. None of these motifs drew our attention when we examined Tracy alone, because they are not strongly gendered. [It is interesting to see them distinguished now, and consider them as potential markers of a terror Gothic as distinct from a women\'92s Gothic.] [But they simply reaffirm that terror is mainstream / isn\'92t gendered] [This correlation, essentially, confirms that our rough guess was right re: Tracy\'92s motifs, that the men\'92s Gothic might operate via striking images but the women\'92s Gothic less so.] [It also suggests that, when we are seduced by the scenery of the Gothic, we end up paying attention to only a minor thread within it (men\'92s horror) at the expense of non-motif-ifiable features which better define the mainstream.]}