{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf810
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red38\green38\blue38;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\csgray\c20000;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Jayne Elizabeth Lewis 
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl460\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs40 \cf2 "No Colour of Language": Radcliffe's Aesthetic Unbound 
\fs24 \
This essay reads Ann Radcliffe's celebrated landscapes in light of their remarkable infusion with "every colour that paints the rainbow"\'97an infusion that links Radcliffe's gothic fictions with contemporary aesthetic theory. But that theory often doubled as a kind of early speech act theory, and against its background, I argue, Radcliffe's colors emerge as a mode and method of signaling the presence and politics of linguistic mediation. Radcliffe herself identifies "tint" and "hue" with the ever-inadequate "colours of language," allowing us to read Radcliffe's landscapes as subversive pictures of nothing but the (here feminine) perception that frames them.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sa120\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs22 \cf3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \'93It is a pity that Ann Radcliffe\'92s \'93language\'94 should so often lament its own insufficiency of \'93colour,\'94 when color is one of the qualities that most vividly distinguishes her prose fiction from that of virtually all of her predecessors and contemporaries.\'94\
\'93Here, I would like to approach these complementary effects of abstraction and coloration as fundamentally linguistic devices which in Radcliffe\'92s hands find themselves further filtered through the scrim of specifically feminine perception.\'94\
p.386: In all their \'93rich colouring\'94 (SR 104), Radcliffe\'92s landscapes cannot in truth be said to consist in more than the \'93beauties and effects\'94 of the English language; in an importantly literal sense, there is nothing more to them. -- Highlighted Apr 21, 2017\
p.387: Just so, when we turn to Radcliffe\'92s use of specific \'93hue[s]\'94 to enhance her scenery, we often find color detaching itself from material bodies, not to abandon them but to span the chasm that apparently divides those bodies from ideal forms and values. -- Highlighted Apr 21, 2017\
p.389: Because the descriptions she derived from those authorities aim to make us see nothing through them, but everything in them, they sabotage their own pictorial pretensions. This amounts to true aesthetic critique, even as it challenges from within a culturally cherished superstition about written language -- Highlighted Apr 21, 2017\
p.389: Thus obsessively repeated textual \'93effects\'94 like light\'92s dissolution into mist, or its refraction into color, are not in themselves merely slavish reflections of Burke\'92s sublime, Reynolds\'92s abstraction, or for that matter, the Newtonian optics from which both of these ideals were derived. Rather, such Radcliffean signatures trace\'97indeed literalize\'97the circumstances under which aesthetic figure and cultural ground become one. -- Highlighted Apr 21, 2017}