{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 Although our parser has not solved the problem of guessing the specific addressees of a character\'92s speech, and instead tracks characters present on stage during speech, its simplifications allow it to be remarkably extensible. It could be used to parse any play that follows TEI P5 guidelines for performance texts. Each speaking character is connected to all characters currently present on stage. These connections are recorded in a network graph, with characters as nodes and shared speech as edges. Edges are directional, and weighted based on the number of lines spoken.\
\
To verify that our parser is accurate, we compare our generated network of Hamlet to Moretti\'92s well-known handmade model of that play (2011). Despite some minor differences in peripheral characters like \'93Servant\'94, and our less-minor difference in including the play-within-the-play, the two networks are highly similar. Our network graph supports Moretti\'92s reading. Our tool also improves on Moretti\'92s model by adding direction and weight to each connection. Although this level of detail turned out not to be necessary for the basic task of using network graphs to distinguish between Shakespeare\'92s genres, it may be useful in future work examining a less homogenous corpus of plays, or in work asking different questions about this corpus.}