{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf810
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red38\green38\blue38;\red230\green255\blue79;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c14902\c14902\c14902;\csgenericrgb\c90000\c100000\c31000;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sa120\pardirnatural

\f0\fs22 \cf2 \'93Quantitative gains in the amount of scholarly data available and accessible are with certain qualifications a Good Thing \'97 but not the essential thing.\'94\
\'93\cb3 work that is disciplined, i.e., distinguishable from the intelligent but unreliable opinion of the educated layperson\cb1 .\'94\
\'93a common epistemological sense: use of a likeness to gain knowledge of its original.\'94\
\'93We can see immediately why computing should be spoken of in these terms, as it represents knowledge of things in manipulable form\'94\
\'93My argument is that we can learn from what philosophers and historians have had to say about experimental practice in the natural sciences because humanities computing is, like them, an equipment-oriented field of enquiry. It thus provides, I will suggest later, access to a common ground of concerns.\'94\
\'93The most basic distinction is, in Clifford Geertz's terms, between "an 'of' sense and a 'for' sense" of modeling (1993/1973: 93). A model of something is an exploratory device, a more or less "poor substitute" for the real thing (Groenewold 1961: 98). We build such modelsof because the object of study is inaccessible or intractable, like poetry or subatomic whatever theyare. In contrast a model for something is a design, exemplary ideal, archetype or other guiding preconception. Thus we construct a model of an airplane in order to see how it works; we design a model for an airplane to guide its construction. A crucial point is that both kinds are imagined, the former out of a preexisting reality, the latter into a world that doesn't yet exist, as a plan for its realization.\'94\
\'93comprise a practical means of playing out the consequences of an idea in the real world\'94\
\'93a model of is made in a consciously simplifying act of interpretation. Although this kind of model is not necessarily a physical object, the goal of simplification is to make tractable or manipulable what the modeler regards as interesting about it.\'94\
\'93A fundamental principle for modelingof is the exact correspondence between model and object with respect to the webs of relationships among the selected elements in each. Nevertheless, such isomorphism (as it is called) may be violated deliberately in order to study the consequences\'94\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sa120\pardirnatural

\b \cf2 \'93a modelof is fictional not only by being a representation, and so not the thing itself, but also by selective omission and perhaps by distortion and inclusion as well\'94
\b0 \cf2 \

\b \cf2 \'93Shanin notes that modeling may be useful, appropriate, stimulating, and significant \'97 but by definition never true
\b0 \cf2  (1972: 11). It is, again, 
\b \cf2 a pragmatic strategy for coming to know
\b0 \cf2 \'94\
\'93collapses the distinction between theory and theoretical model, leaving us to deal only with varieties of modeling\'94\
\'93Since modeling is pragmatic, the worth of a model must be judged by its fruitfulness.\'94\
\'93that for a modelof, this fruitfulness is meaningful in proportion to the "goodness of the fit" between model and original\'94\
\'93as a bridge between theory and empirical data, the model participates in both\'94\
\'93a good model can be fruitful in two ways: either by fulfilling our expectations, and so strengthening its theoretical basis, or by violating them, and so bringing that basis into question\'94\
\'93I argue that from the research perspective of the model, in the context of the humanities, failure to give us what we expect is by far the more important result, however unwelcome surprises may be to granting agencies.\'94\
\'93Driven as we are by the epistemological imperative, to know; constrained (as in Plato's cave or before St Paul's enigmatic mirror) to know only poor simulacra of an unreachable reality \'97 but aware somehow that they are shadows of something \'97 our faith is that as the shadowing (or call it modeling) gets better, it approaches the metaphorical discourse of the poets.\'94\

\b \cf2 \'93The imaginative language of poetry doesn't survive well under such a regime. But this is only what we expect from modeling, during which (as Teodor Shanin said) the "limited and selective consciousness" of the modeler comes up against "the unlimited complexity and 'richness' of the object."\'94\
\'93It assumes a transcendent, imperfectly accessible reality for the artifacts we study, recognizes the central role of tacit knowledge in humanistic ways of knowing them and, while giving us unprecedented means for systematizing these ways, is pragmatically antirealist about them.\'94
\b0 \cf2 \
\'93Its fruits are manipulatory control of the\'94\'93modeled data and, by reducing the reducible to mechanical form, identification of new horizons for research.\'94}