{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl200\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Over the last few years, Dr. Susan Gauch\'92s team have created a program that takes in specially-formatted versions of Shakespeare\'92s plays and converts them into their social networks. A current graduate student created a program that derives a set of values from a social network. From each social network, 17 different values are extracted. These values include number of characters, number of edges, number of lines spoken in the play, number of words in the play, and other numerical properties. These values are the basis for the research presented in this project. \
The similarity of two literary plays was computed based on the properties derived from the social networks of both literary plays. This was done by taking a weighted sum of the differences of each property derived from the social networks of the plays. This overall difference was then plugged into the second equation on the right to normalize it between 0 and 1. 
\fs24 \cb1 \

\fs18\fsmilli9333 \cb3 The weights were calculated using a genetic algorithm. The genetic algorithm tried to reach a solution that rated two plays of the same genre as more similar than two plays of a different genre. 
\fs24 \cb1 \
}