{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red236\green184\blue255;\red206\green187\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c94500\c78400\c100000;\cssrgb\c84700\c79200\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 Ann Tracy, unlike Frank, \cb2 [is not a household name (how to not sound dismissive?? Imagine Tracy will read this)]\cb1  in Gothic studies. \cb3 [Something more about Tracy?]\cb1  Her bibliography is built to be more like a particularly helpful finding aid than a comprehensive check-list.  Her most unusual qualitative bibliographical work is her ten-page \'93Index to Motifs,\'94 which identifies the books in which 208 different \'93motifs\'94 appear. Tracy uses the term \'93motif\'94 broadly to encompass a wide range of plot elements, images, and character types. Unlike Frank\'92s highly-variable \'93Gothic types,\'94 these motifs are already systematically standardized. The index is intended for \'93scholars with particular {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://6CB3EB1B-E36E-471D-8756-92C497767EE7"}}{\fldrslt interests\'94}}, who wish to locate and read books containing individual story elements, such as \'93doppelganger\'94 or \'93garden as scene of temptation.\'94 Accordingly, Tracy prioritizes presenting a wide range of highly distinctive motifs rather than those that constitute the norm. Indeed, she intentionally excludes the most popular motifs: \'93the abundance of murders,\'94 she says, \'93argued for the retention\'85 of specialized murders {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://5869E3B6-CC5D-4D09-95EB-E03C6F171234"}}{\fldrslt only,\'94}} and castles have similarly been ignored. In addition to the motifs, Tracy provides a plot summary of each novel. Her summaries, too, emphasize distinctive details, pointing out things like \'93a particularly interesting Satan, with molten {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://A1FEF1BB-D563-4DDB-86C9-A2556F420192"}}{\fldrslt insides.\'94}} She makes no mention of the critical assessments or literary intertextuality which make up the majority of Frank\'92s synopses. As a model of the Gothic, then, Tracy\'92s bibliography elides similarities between novels to increase her sensitivity to points of difference. It treats each novel as a collection of discrete elements, only one of which is likely to be of interest to a given scholar. The motifs themselves \'97 Satans, murders, doppelgangers, gardens \'97 are thus constructed as the stable objects of study, which must be examined through the filter of individual novels. These motifs are also, therefore, more replicable and extensible than Frank\'92s gothic types: Tracy includes an explicit description of her methodology, \cb2 [rendering the method of capture for her \'93capta\'94 to be more obvious/explicit ]\cb1 . \cb2 [Allows it to be imaginable that another scholar could expand on her work / integrate new details]}