{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c99997\c99999;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Emotional response is salient as a distinguishing factor for Baker because he, like many of his contemporaries, writes from the teleological assumption that the history of the novel must be the history of the 
\i \cf2 \cb3 realist
\i0 \cf2 \cb3  novel. Baker\'92s approach to the Gothic is not as obviously mediated through editorial intervention as Tracy\'92s or Frank\'92s bibliographies; as we would expect, Baker makes no explicitly deformative moves, but proceeds by discussing his various selected texts in their entirety. Nonetheless, he writes on the basis of a model of the genre\'92s history and its salient features. The assumptions of his model, however, remain implicit in the moralizing judgments throughout his work. Baker\'92s excoriation of \'93that amoral person [Laurence] Sterne\'94 for being a \'93debauched sentimentalist\'94 who \'93fondled his sensibility,\'94 \'93aware of his vice, and voluptuously enjoying all its {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://0EE27735-FD5B-44FF-B137-C667EAA050DC"}}{\fldrslt sweetness,\'94}} for example, evaluates 
\i \cf2 \cb3 Tristram Shandy
\i0 \cf2 \cb3  along markedly different lines than would now be considered fruitful. J.M.S. Tompkins, too, dismisses the Gothic on the basis of [teleologically realist] assumptions: with the rise of the Gothic, she says, \'93the average novelist paid, on the whole, very little attention to the probability, and the novel in consequence slipped farther away from reality, as though a window on to the other world had been changed to a magic {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://53A8441F-3BE2-4CF9-A802-D23B91830C59"}}{\fldrslt lantern.\'94}} The \'93magic lantern\'94 of the Gothic is often discussed in positive terms, but [when Tompkins places \'93reality\'94 as the central point from which one moves \'93away,\'94 to \'93slip\'94 is to make negative progress, and the enchanting lantern is rendered dangerous.] Both Baker and Tompkins model the novel itsels as a training-ground for the mind, through which habits of thought are established, and which therefore ought to inculcate the \'93right\'94 mode of thought. Accordingly, both model the Gothic as a dangerously emotional and disordered mode of thought, notable not for its plots or sets or even which emotions are induced, but defined entirely by the emotionally overpowering nature of the reading experience.}