{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\ftech\fcharset77 Symbol;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red191\green81\blue5;\red0\green0\blue233;\red223\green223\blue223;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c74902\c31765\c1961;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c91373;\csgenericrgb\c87451\c87451\c87451;
}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\'95\cf0 elvid.\
I'm 
\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0 \uc0\u9674 
\f1 \uc0\u12297 
\f0 \cf0  I am \cf2 \'95\cf0 old! betray'd to 
\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0 \uc0\u9674 
\f1 \uc0\u12297 
\f0 \cf0 !\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0 \uc0\u9674 
\f1 \uc0\u12297 
\f0 \cf0  Ruin has inclos'd me!\
No soone\cf2 \'95\cf0  was I to my bed re\cf2 \'95\cf0 d,\
To weigh, and (w\cf2 \'95\cf0 ing) 
\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0 \uc0\u9674 \u9674 \u9674 
\f1 \uc0\u12297 
\f0 \cf0 ,\
But the old ho\cf2 \'95
\f1 \uc0\u12296 
\f0 \uc0\u9674 
\f1 \uc0\u12297 
\f0 \cf0  to 
\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0 \uc0\u9674 \u9674 \u9674 
\f1 \uc0\u12297 
\f0 \cf0 \
My Peace and Honou\cf2 \'95
\f1 \uc0\u12296 
\f0 \uc0\u9674 \u9674 
\f1 \uc0\u12297 
\f0 \cf0 , c\cf2 \'95\cf0 \
(Like 
\i Tarq\cf2 \'95\cf0 in
\i0 ) gastely with 
\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0 \uc0\u9674 
\f1 \uc0\u12297 
\f0 \cf0  Lust.\
Oh thou 
\i Ro\cf2 \'95
\f1\i0 \uc0\u12296 
\f0\i \uc0\u9674 
\f1\i0 \uc0\u12297 
\f0 \cf0  thou could'st find friends to vindica\cf2 \'95\cf0  thy Wrong;\
I never had but one, and he's prov'd false;\
He that should g\cf2 \'95\cf0 d 
\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0 \uc0\u9674 \u9674 
\f1 \uc0\u12297 
\f0 \cf0 , 
\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0 \uc0\u9674 \u9674 \u9674 
\f1 \uc0\u12297 
\f0 \cf0 ,\

\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0 \uc0\u9674 
\f1 \uc0\u12297 
\f0 \cf0  me! undone me! Oh t\cf2 \'95\cf0  I 
\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0 \uc0\u9674 \u9674 
\f1 \uc0\u12297 
\f0 \cf0  him!\
Where shall I go! Oh 
\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0 \uc0\u9674 
\f1 \uc0\u12297 
\f0 \cf0  whither 
\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0 \uc0\u9674 
\f1 \uc0\u12297 
\f0 \cf0 ?\

\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0\i \uc0\u9674 
\f1\i0 \uc0\u12297 \u12296 
\f0 \uc0\u9674 
\f1 \uc0\u12297 
\f0 \cf0 \
Jaff.\
Can, 
\i \cf2 \'95\cf0 lvidera
\i0  want a resting place\
When these poor 
\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0 \uc0\u9674 
\f1 \uc0\u12297 
\f0 \cf0  are 
\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0 \uc0\u9674 \u9674 \u9674 \u9674 
\f1 \uc0\u12297 
\f0 \cf0 ?\
Oh 'tis in vain to struggle with D\cf2 \'95\cf0 \
Strong as my Love to thee, 
\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0 \uc0\u9674 \u9674 
\f1 \uc0\u12297 
\f0 \cf0  moment\
I am from thy sight, the H\cf2 \'95\cf0 rt 
\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0 \uc0\u9674 
\f1 \uc0\u12297 
\f0 \cf0  my 
\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0 \uc0\u9674 
\f1 \uc0\u12297 
\f0 \cf0 \
Moans like a tender In\cf2 \'95\cf0 t i\cf2 \'95\cf0  i\cf2 \'95
\f1 \uc0\u12296 
\f0 \uc0\u9674 
\f1 \uc0\u12297 
\f0 \cf0 \
Whose Nurse had l\cf2 \'95\cf0  it: 
\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0 \uc0\u9674 
\f1 \uc0\u12297 
\f0 \cf0 , and w\cf2 \'95\cf0  the Songs\
Of gentle Love perswade i\cf2 \'95\cf0  to 
\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0 \uc0\u9674 \u9674 
\f1 \uc0\u12297 
\f0 \cf0 \
Relvid.\
I fear the stubborn 
\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0 \uc0\u9674 
\f1 \uc0\u12297 
\f0 \cf0  will not own me,\
'Tis grown a Rebel to be 
\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0 \uc0\u9674 
\f1 \uc0\u12297 
\f0 \cf0  do long\cf2 \'95\cf0 ,\
Scor\cf2 \'95\cf0 ns the Indulge\cf2 \'95\cf0  Bo\cf2 \'95\cf0  that 
\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0 \uc0\u9674 
\f1 \uc0\u12297 
\f0 \'95\cf0 ll'd it,\
And like a Disobedie\cf2 \'95\cf0  Child \cf2 \'95\cf0 dains\
The soft Authority of 
\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0 \uc0\u9674 
\f1 \uc0\u12297 
\f0 \cf0 .\

\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0 \uc0\u9674 
\f1 \uc0\u12297 
\f0 \cf0 .\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri1000\sa240
\cf0 There was 
\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0 \uc0\u9674 \u9674 \u9674 
\f1 \uc0\u12297 
\f0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0 \uc0\u9674 
\f1 \uc0\u12297 
\f0 \cf0 .\
Yes, yes, th\cf2 \'95\cf0  was\cf2 \'95\cf0  time,\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://quod.lib.umich.edu/e/eebo/A53535.0001.001/38:7?vid=56029"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \cb4 Page \'a029}}\cb4 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \cb1 When 
\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0\i \uc0\u9674 
\f1\i0 \uc0\u12297 
\f0 \cf0 's tears, her crys, and sorrows\
Were not de\cf2 \'95\cf0 ; when if the chanc'd to 
\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0 \uc0\u9674 
\f1 \uc0\u12297 
\f0 \cf0 ,\
Or look but \cf2 \'95\cf0 d; there was indeed a time\
When 
\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0\i \uc0\u9674 
\f1\i0 \uc0\u12297 
\f0 \cf0  would have 
\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0 \uc0\u9674 \u9674 
\f1 \uc0\u12297 
\f0 \cf0  in his Arms,\
Eas'd her declining Head upon his Breast,\
And never left her 'till he found the Cause,\
But let her now w\cf2 \'95
\f1 \uc0\u12296 
\f0 \uc0\u9674 
\f1 \uc0\u12297 
\f0 \cf0 ,\
Cry, 'till she rend the Earth; sigh 'till she burst\
Her heart asunder; still he bears it all;\
Deaf as the Wind, and as the Rocks unshaken.\
Jaff.\
Have I been deaf? am I that Rock unmov'd?\
Against whose root, T\cf2 \'95\cf0 s beat and sighes a\cf2 \'95\cf0 e 
\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0 \uc0\u9674 
\f1 \uc0\u12297 
\f0 \cf0 \
In vain have I 
\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0 \uc0\u9674 
\f1 \uc0\u12297 
\f0 \cf0  thy Sorrows 
\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0 \uc0\u9674 
\f1 \uc0\u12297 
\f0 \cf0 !\
Witness against me Heav'\cf2 \'95\cf0 s, have I done this\cf2 \'95\cf0 \
Then bear me in a Whirl wind back agen,\
And let that angry dear one ne're forgive me!\
Oh thou too rashly 
\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0 \uc0\u9674 
\f1 \uc0\u12297 
\f0 \cf0  of my Love!\
Could'st thou but 
\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0 \uc0\u9674 
\f1 \uc0\u12297 
\f0 \'95\cf0 ow I have 
\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0 \uc0\u9674 
\f1 \uc0\u12297 
\f0 \cf0  this night,\
Dark and alone, no p\cf2 \'95\cf0 ow to my He\cf2 \'95\cf0 d,\
Rest in my Eyes, nor quiet in my Heart,\
Thou would'st not 
\i Belvidera,
\i0  sure thou would\cf2 \'95
\f1 \uc0\u12296 
\f0 \uc0\u9674 
\f1 \uc0\u12297 
\f0 \cf0 \
Talk to me thus, but like a p\cf2 \'95\cf0 tying Angel\
Spreading thy 
\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0 \uc0\u9674 
\f1 \uc0\u12297 
\f0 \cf0  come settle on my breast,\
And hatch warm comfort there e\cf2 \'95\cf0 re sorrows freeze it.\
Belv.\
Why, then poor 
\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0 \uc0\u9674 
\f1 \uc0\u12297 
\f0 \cf0 , in what baleful Cor\cf2 \'95\cf0 \
Hast thou been talking with that Witch the Night?\
On what cold stone hast 
\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0 \uc0\u9674 
\f1 \uc0\u12297 
\f0 \cf0  been stretcht along,\
Gathering the grumbling \cf2 \'95\cf0 ds about thy Head,\
To mix with theirs the Accents, of thy Woes!\
Oh now I \cf2 \'95\cf0 d the Cause my Love forsakes me!\
I am no longer fit to bear a share\
In his Concernments: My weak female Vi\cf2 \'95\cf0 ue\
Must not be trusted; 'Tis too \cf2 \'95\cf0 ail and tend\cf2 \'95\cf0 r.\
Jaff.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri1000\sa240
\cf0 Oh 
\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0\i \uc0\u9674 
\f1\i0 \uc0\u12297 
\f0\i \cf0 ! Porcia!
\i0  What a Soul was thine?\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 Belv.\
That 
\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0\i \uc0\u9674 
\f1\i0 \uc0\u12297 
\f0 \cf0  was a Woman, and when 
\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0\i \uc0\u9674 
\f1\i0 \uc0\u12297 
\f0 \cf0 \
Big with the fate of 
\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0\i \uc0\u9674 
\f1\i0 \uc0\u12297 
\f0\i \cf0 ,
\i0  (Heav'n guard thy safety!)\
Conceal'd from her the Labours of his Mind,\
She let him see, h\cf2 \'95\cf0  Blood was great as his,\
Flow'd from a Spring as noble, and a Heart\
Fit to partake his Troubles, as his L\cf2 \'95\cf0 ve:\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0 \uc0\u9674 
\f1 \uc0\u12297 
\f0 \cf0 , fetch that D\cf2 \'95\cf0 gger back, the 
\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0 \uc0\u9674 
\f1 \uc0\u12297 
\f0 \cf0  dower\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://quod.lib.umich.edu/e/eebo/A53535.0001.001/39:7?vid=56029"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \cb4 Page \'a030}}\cb4 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \cb1 Thou gav'st last night in parting with me, stril\cf2 \'95\cf0  it\
Here to my heart, and as the Blood flows from i\cf2 \'95\cf0 ,\
Judge if it run not 
\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0 \uc0\u9674 
\f1 \uc0\u12297 
\f0 \cf0  as 
\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0 \uc0\u9674 
\f1 \uc0\u12297 
\f0 \cf0  Da\cf2 \'95\cf0 ghter's.\
Jaff.\
Thou \cf2 \'95\cf0 rt too good, and I indeed unworthy,\
Unworthy so much 
\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0 \uc0\u9674 
\f1 \uc0\u12297 
\f0 \cf0 ! Teach me how\
I may deserve such matc\cf2 \'95\cf0 less Love as thine,\
And see with what attention I'l obey thee.\
Belv.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri1000\sa240
\cf0 Do not despise me: that's the All I ask.\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 Jaff.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri1000\sa240
\cf0 Despise thee! Hear me \'97\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 Belv.\
Oh thy charming Tongue\
Is but too well acquainted with my weakness,\
Knows, let it name but Love, my melting heart\
Dissolves within my Bre\cf2 \'95\cf0 st, 'till with 
\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0 \uc0\u9674 
\f1 \uc0\u12297 
\f0 \cf0  Eyes\
I reel into thy Arms, and all's forgotten.\
Jaff.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri1000\sa240
\cf0 What shall I do?\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 Belv.\
Tell me! be just, and tell me\
Why dwells that busy Cloud upon thy face?\
Why am I made a 
\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0 \uc0\u9674 
\f1 \uc0\u12297 
\f0 \cf0  why that 
\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0 \uc0\u9674 
\f1 \uc0\u12297 
\f0 \cf0 ,\
And I not know the Cau\cf2 \'95\cf0 ? Why when the World\
Is wrapt in Rest, why chooses then my Love\
To wander up and down in horrid darkness,\
Loathing his bed, and these desiring Arms?\
Why are those Ey\cf2 \'95\cf0  Blood shot, with tedious watching?\
Why starts 
\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0 \uc0\u9674 
\f1 \uc0\u12297 
\f0 \cf0  now? and looks as if he 
\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0 \uc0\u9674 
\f1 \uc0\u12297 
\f0 \cf0 \
His Fate were 
\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0 \uc0\u9674 
\f1 \uc0\u12297 
\f0 \cf0 ? 'Tell me, ease my 
\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0 \uc0\u9674 
\f1 \uc0\u12297 
\f0 \cf0 !\
Least when we next time meet, I want the power\
To search into the sickness of thy Mind,\
But talk as wildly then as thou look'st now.\
Jaff.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri1000\sa240
\cf0 Oh Betvider\cf2 \'95\cf0 !\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf2 \'95\cf0 elv.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri1000\sa240
\cf0 Why was I last night deliver'd to a Villain?\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 Jaff.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri1000\sa240
\cf0 Hah, a Villain!\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 Belv.\
Yes! to a Villain! Why at such an hour\
Meets that assembly all made up of Wretches\
That look as Hel\cf2 \'95\cf0 ad had drawn 'em into League?\
Why, I in this hand, and in 
\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0 \uc0\u9674 \u9674 
\f1 \uc0\u12297 
\f0 \cf0  Dagger,\
Was I deliver'd with such dre\cf2 \'95\cf0  Ceremonies?\
``
\i To you, Sirs, and to your Honour I be \cf2 \'95\cf0 th \cf2 \'95\cf0 er,
\i0 \
``
\i And with her this: When e're I prove \cf2 \'95\cf0 worthy,
\i0 \
``
\i You know the rest, then strike it to her Heart?
\i0 \
Oh! why's that 
\i rest
\i0  conceal'd from me? must I\
Be made the hostage o\cf2 \'95\cf0  a 
\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0 \uc0\u9674 \u9674 
\f1 \uc0\u12297 
\f0 \cf0 ?\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://quod.lib.umich.edu/e/eebo/A53535.0001.001/40:7?vid=56029"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \cb4 Page \'a031}}\cb4 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \cb1 For such I know I am; that's all my value!\
But by the Love and Loyalty I owe thee,\
I'l free thee from the Bondage of these Slaves,\
Strait to the Senate, tell'em all I know,\
All that I think, all that my fears inform me!\
Jaff.\
Is this the 
\i Roman
\i0  Virtue! this the Blood,\
That boasts its purity with 
\i Cato
\i0 's Daughter!\
Would she have e're betray'd her 
\i Brutus?
\i0 \
Belv.\
No:\
For 
\i Brutus
\i0  trusted her: Wer't thou so kind,\
What would not 
\i Belvidera
\i0  suffer for thee?\
Jaff.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri1000\sa240
\cf0 I shall undo my self, and \cf2 \'95\cf0 ell thee all.\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 Belv.\
Look not upon me, as I am a Woman,\
But as a Bone, thy Wife, thy Friend; who long\
Has had admission to thy heart, and there\
Study'd the Virtues of thy gallant Nature;\
Thy Constancy; thy Courage and thy Truth,\
Have been my daily \cf2 \'95\cf0 esson! I have learnt them,\
Am bold as thou, can suffer or despise\
The worst of Fates for thee; and with thee share them.\
Jaff.\
Oh you divinest Powers! look down and hear\
My Prayers! instruct me to reward this Virtue!\
Yet think a litt\cf2 \'95\cf0 , 
\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0 \uc0\u9674 
\f1 \uc0\u12297 
\f0 \cf0  thou tempt me further:\
Think I have a Tale to tell, will shake thy Nature,\
Melt all this boasted Constancy thou talk'st o\cf2 \'95\cf0 \
Into vile tears and despicable sorrows:\
Then if thou should'st betray me!\
Be\cf2 \'95\cf0 .\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri1000\sa240
\cf0 Shall 
\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0 \uc0\u9674 
\f1 \uc0\u12297 
\f0 \'95\cf0 wear?\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 Jaff.\
No: do not swear: I would not violate\
Thy tender Nature with so rude a Bond:\
But as thou hop'st to see me live my days,\
And love thee long, lock this within thy Breast;\
I've bound my self by all the strictest Sacraments,\
Divine and humane \'97\
Belv.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri1000\sa240
\cf0 Speak! \'97\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 Jaff.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri1000\sa240
\cf0 To kill thy Father \'97\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 Be\cf2 \'95\cf0 v.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri1000\sa240
\cf0 My Father!\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 Jaff.\
Nay the Throats of the whole Senate\
Shall bleed my 
\i Be\cf2 \'95\cf0 videra:
\i0  He amongst 
\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0 \uc0\u9674 
\f1 \uc0\u12297 
\f0 \cf0 \
That spares his Father, Brother, or his \cf2 \'95\cf0 riend,\
Is Damn'd: How rich and beauteous will the face\
Of Ruin look, when these wide street\cf2 \'95\cf0  run blood;\
I and the glorious Partner's of my Fortune\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://quod.lib.umich.edu/e/eebo/A53535.0001.001/41:7?vid=56029"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \cb4 Page \'a032}}\cb4 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \cb1 Shouting, and striding o're the prostrate Dead:\
Still to new waste; whilst thou, far off in safety\
Smiling, shalt see the wonders of our daring;\
And when night comes, with Praise and Love rec\cf2 \'95\cf0 ive me.\
Belv.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri1000\sa240
\cf0 Oh!\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 Jaff.\
Have a care, and shrink not even in thought!\
For if thou do 
\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0 \uc0\u9674 
\f1 \uc0\u12297 
\f0 \cf0  \'97\
Belv.\
I know it, thou wilt kill me.\
Do, strike thy Sword into this bosom: Lay me\
Dead on the Earth, and then thou wilt be safe:\
Murder my Father! tho his Cruel Nature\
Has persecuted me to my undoing,\
Driven me to basest wants; Can I behold him\
With smiles of Vengeance, butcher'd in his Age?\
The sacred \cf2 \'95\cf0 ountain of my life destroy'd?\
And canst thou shed the blood \cf2 \'95\cf0 hat gave me being?\
Nay, be a Traitor too, and sell th\cf2 \'95\cf0  Count\cf2 \'95\cf0 ;\
Can thy great Heart de\cf2 \'95\cf0 cend so 
\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0 \uc0\u9674 
\f1 \uc0\u12297 
\f0 \cf0  low,\
Mix with hired Slaves, \cf2 \'95\cf0 ravoes and Common stabbers,\
Nose-slitters, Ally-lurking Villians joyn\
With such a Crew, and take a 
\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0 \uc0\u9674 
\f1 \uc0\u12297 
\f0 \cf0  Wages,\
To cut the Thro\cf2 \'95\cf0  of 
\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0 \uc0\u9674 
\f1 \uc0\u12297 
\f0 \cf0  as they 
\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0 \uc0\u9674 
\f1 \uc0\u12297 
\f0 \cf0 \
Jaff.\
Thou wrong 
\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0 \uc0\u9674 
\f1 \uc0\u12297 
\f0 \cf0  me, 
\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0\i \uc0\u9674 
\f1\i0 \uc0\u12297 \u12296 
\f0 \uc0\u9674 
\f1 \uc0\u12297 
\f0 \cf0 , 
\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0 \uc0\u9674 
\f1 \uc0\u12297 
\f0 \cf0 \
With Men of Souls: 
\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0 \uc0\u9674 
\f1 \uc0\u12297 
\f0 \cf0  to reform the ills\
Of all Mankind: There's not a Heart 
\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0 \uc0\u9674 
\f1 \uc0\u12297 
\f0 \cf0  them,\
But's as stout as Death, yet honest as the Nature\
Of Man first made, e're Fraud, and Vice were fashions.\
Belv.\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 What's he, to whose curst hands last night thou 
\f1\b0 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0\b \uc0\u9674 
\f1\b0 \uc0\u12297 
\f0\b \cf0  me?\
Was that well done? Oh! I could tell a story\
Would rowse thy Lyon Heart out of its Den,\
And make it rage with terrifying fury.
\b0 \
Jaff.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri1000\sa240
\cf0 Speak on I 
\f1 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0 \uc0\u9674 
\f1 \uc0\u12297 
\f0 \cf0  t\cf2 \'95\cf0 ee!\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 Belv.\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 Oh my 
\f1\b0 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0\b \uc0\u9674 \u9674 
\f1\b0 \uc0\u12297 
\f0\b \cf0 \
Thy 
\i Belvidera
\i0 's Peace 
\f1\b0 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0\b \uc0\u9674 
\f1\b0 \uc0\u12297 
\f0\b \cf0  thy Care,\
Remove me from this place: Last nigh\cf2 \'95\cf0 , last night
\b0 \
Jaff.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri1000\sa240
\cf0 Distract me not, but give me all the Truth.\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 Belv.\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 No sooner wer't thou 
\f1\b0 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0\b \uc0\u9674 
\f1\b0 \uc0\u12297 
\f0\b \cf0 , and I alone,\
Left in the pow'r 
\f1\b0 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0\b \uc0\u9674 
\f1\b0 \uc0\u12297 
\f0\b \cf0  that old Son of Mischief;\
No sooner was I 
\f1\b0 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0\b \uc0\u9674 
\f1\b0 \uc0\u12297 
\f0\b \cf0  on my sad Bed,\
But that vile Wretch approacht me; loose, unbutton'd,\
Read for violation, 
\f1\b0 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0\b \uc0\u9674 \u9674 
\f1\b0 \uc0\u12297 
\f0\b \cf0  Heart\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://quod.lib.umich.edu/e/eebo/A53535.0001.001/42:7?vid=56029"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \cb4 Page \'a033}}\cb4 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \cb1 Throbb'd with its \cf2 \'95\cf0 ears: Oh how I wept and 
\f1\b0 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0\b \uc0\u9674 
\f1\b0 \uc0\u12297 
\f0\b \cf0 ,\
And shrunk and trembled; 
\f1\b0 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0\b \uc0\u9674 
\f1\b0 \uc0\u12297 
\f0\b \cf0  in 
\f1\b0 \cf2 \uc0\u12296 
\f0\b \uc0\u9674 
\f1\b0 \uc0\u12297 
\f0\b \cf0  for him\
That should protect me. Thou alas! were gone!
\b0 \
Jaff.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri1000\sa240
\cf0 Patience! sweet Heav'n, 'till I make vengeance sure.\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 Belv.\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 He drew the hideous Dagger forth thou gav'st him,\
And with upbra\cf2 \'95\cf0 ding smiles he said, 
\i behold it;
\i0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\i \cf0 This is the pledge of a false Husbands love:
\i0 \
And in my Arms then prest, and wou'd have clasp'd me;\
But with my Cries I scar'd his Coward heart,\
'Till he withdrew, and mutter'd vows to Hell.\
These are thy Friends! with these thy Life, thy Honour,\
Thy Love, all's stak't, and all will go to ruine.\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0 \cf0 Jaff.\
No more: I charge thee keep this secret close;\
Clear up thy sorrows, look as if thy wrongs\
Were all forgot, and treat him like a Friend,\
As no complaint were made. No more, retire,\
Retire my Life, and doubt not of my Honour;\
I'l heal its failings, and deserve thy Love.\
}