{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs22 \cf0 Sentences
\b0 \
1. \'93In the current author\'92s experience, digital history projects involving text reach the limits of what can be achieved through algorithmic approaches distressingly fast. In other words, the human era is far from over.\'94\
2. \'93I hope that my analysis of the dream sequences above has given readers an insight into Kyd\'92s dramatic methods, and the links of thought and language that could help to distinguish his oeuvre. With a forthcoming edition of Kyd\'92s plays that will include King Leir and Arden of Faversham \'96 as well as further justifications for the presence of these texts in The Works of Thomas Kyd (Vickers Forthcoming) \'96 it seems fair to say that a new era in Kyd studies, which will enhance our knowledge of his contributions to early modern drama as a whole, has begun.\'94\
3. \'93For good or ill (and, in fact, overwhelmingly for good rather than for ill), Wikipedia seems unlikely to go away, and it will be interesting to see how the work develops, particularly in respect of its ongoing challenges to ideas of textual authority and intellectual property. Those working in early modern studies, like their colleagues in other fields, will doubtless continue to engage with this fascinating, maddening resource. While they will struggle both with its huge power and its unexpected weaknesses, they will have at least one particular satisfaction: they are witnessing the action of a project with an attitude towards intellectual property and information technology which is so various and complicated as to be almost early modern.\'94\
4. \'93Ultimately, our research demonstrates the fruitfulness not just of topic modeling, but of topic modeling a dramatic corpus by character. The first major conclusion of this research, that Prince Hal is not the same as Henry V, is one that the character himself tells us: yet our model shows that Hal is categorically and quantifiably different (not just claiming to be so). Our second major conclusion\'97that Falstaff\'92s character does not change over multiple plays\'97adds a new form of evidence to be considered in a centuries-long debate in Shakespeare studies. Indeed, it is our hope that this algorithmically-informed analysis of Shakespeare\'92s plays is not taken as a final answer, but, instead, as a prompt. As this research demonstrates, topic modeling plays with attention to each speaker opens the door for new comparisons that expand on and reassess previous critical interpretations.\'94\
5. \'93There seems to be a generic division of labour between Wordsworth and Southey, and so the question becomes, how indebted is the production of Lake-School poetry to the evolutions and devolutions of social networks? Should we see the failure of Southey\'92s introspective and Wordsworth\'92s epic ones as "personal" problems, as "writer\'92s block" for Wordsworth that just by chance is accompanied by a weirdly inverse writer\'92s block on Southey\'92s part\'97both of them being otherwise incredibly prolific writers (Leader 1991)? Maybe these ostensibly personal problems are in fact network effects. Literary scholars of the Romantic era have undoubtedly been attuned to "literary circles" throughout the history of literary criticism of the period, most recently visible in the emergence of Romantic Circles in 1993 and the discussion of the "Southey Coleridge Circle" as a "network" in 2000 (Pratt and Denison 2000b). But questioning whether Wordsworth and Southey\'92s "failings" to write epics and lyrics, respectively, are intersubjective network effects? That question is new.\'94\
\

\b Final Paras
\b0 \
1. Reflects on reproducibility, limitations of work, DH research as a whole\
2. Mentions other projects as proof of wide acceptance of their findings\
3. Broad gesture to continuing relevance of the subject, reiterates major claim\
4. Reiterates usefulness of method, major claim\
5. Makes claim for newness of their approach}