{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\deftab720
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\fi720\sl480\slmult1

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Unlike Pierre, who would seem to be the obvious moral danger, Renault has no redemptive heroic philosophy, and does not escape the ignominy of state execution.\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 Characters die in order according to the strength of their ties to Renault: the conspirators in a mass, Pierre and then Jaffeir together in succession, and then at the end, when we think perhaps she might escape, their dialogue-tenuous but plot-intense connection pulls Belvidera into the grave. \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 Renault is at the centre of the corrupting part of the plot: he enters the play soliloquizing about the short-sightedness of his own ambition (II.iii.1-7), and right away quarrels with Eliot and then with Bedamar. He also, from the first, challenges Bedamar\'92s authority as the leader of the conspiracy. When Bedamar attempts to resolve Renault\'92s conflict with Eliot, Renault offers violence to one of them\'97 the stage directions do not specify, but it is Bedamar who rebukes him with, \'93Renault, thy hand!\'94 (II.iii.38)\'97 and Bedamar must pressure Eliot to be the one to stand down from the conflict that Renault initiated. More subtly, when Bedamar is consolidating the conspirators\'92 loyalty, extracting from them the group cry of \'93All! We\'92ll die with Bedamore\'94 (II.iii.76), Renault cuts in to give his own rousing speech. By the time the conspiracy itself takes shape, in Act III, Bedamar is no longer present with the conspirators, and Renault appears to have quietly usurped his place. Renault, like Bedamar, makes large speeches to the assembled group, which demand affirmations of their loyalty in return, but Renault\'92s talk betrays a disproportionate thirst for violence that horrifies Jaffeir. Renault\'92s overreaching\'97 both in the bloodthirstiness of his conspiracy, and in his unseen overthrow of Bedamar\'97 appears to be the crucial flaw that dooms all those who associate with him.}