{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf100
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Both Felski and Sedgwick suggest a greater acknowledgement of what an eighteenth century writer might term the 
\i interest
\i0  we have in the texts we study. For a story to be \'93interesting,\'94 in the late eighteenth century, means not only that it is informative or narratively compelling, but that it makes a claim on the emotional investment of its audience. One is not only interested 
\i in
\i0  others, but interested 
\i for
\i0  others, with the potential of actively demonstrating that interest through social assistance. Felski describes this as \'93a judicious decrease rather than an increase of distance -- a willingness to acknowledge and more fully engage our attachments.\'94 As a scholarly practice to demonstrate this closeness, Felski gestures towards what she terms \'93neophenomenology,\'94 \'93a sustained attention to the sheer range and complexity of aesthetic experiences, including moments of recognition, enchantment, shock, and knowledge.\'94 Felski has begun this work by establishing a greater richness for the vocabulary of \'93identifying\'94 with characters. Determining whether a character is \'93relatable\'94 enough to \'93identify with\'94 is often a key concern for undergraduate readers and for 18thC thinkers: Felski distinguishes literary itentification into at least three types, \'93structural or formal alignment, moral allegiance, and emotional empathy,\'94 which could be useful for untangling the allegiance required of different works of sentimental literature. Felski thus begins to locate \'93post-critical, rather than uncritical\'94 forms of \'93serious thinking\'94 which could both shed light on and be modified by eighteenth-century practices.}