{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 Genre, as one of the eternally difficult questions of literary study, is a ubiquitous subject for computational \'93distant reading\'94 of literature. In setting out many of the \'93perennial doubts [that] plague genre theory,\'94 Daniel Chandler notes as one source of difficulty that \'93[p]articular features which are characteristic of a genre are not normally unique to it; it is their relative prominence, combination and functions which are distinctive\'94 (1977). Often, the relative prominence of these distinctive features is obscured by the richness of individual literary texts. By introducing a layer of abstraction, distant reading allows for a new angle of study. This new angle of study enables both macroanalysis (Jockers, 2013) and what Hoover terms \'93microanalysis,\'94 which uses \'93style variation within a single work or author as a way of better understanding authorship and style\'94 (2016).\
Our work carries out a microanalysis of dramatic genre, taking the widely-studied works of Shakespeare as our case study, as the prototype for future macroanalytical study. Work on Shakespeare has a particularly long history of genre studies. Scholars have been interpreting and revising the taxonomy of \'93comedy,\'94 \'93history,\'94 and \'93tragedy\'94 since the First Folio collected Shakespeare\'92s plays into those categories. We work within the tradition that examines First Folio designations. We employ distant reading to confirm some ways that genre has been conceived in these plays, but also to reconsider them, and to suggest new tools to think about the problem cases.}