{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red252\green111\blue207;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c100000\c54098\c84731;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 [The thing in past literary criticism that I wish to subject to scrutiny is the category of the Female Gothic.] The \'93obviously\'94 female-associated phenomenon [of the previously mentioned conventional narrative] led to the critical category of the \'93Female Gothic\'94 to discuss narratives of women in patriarchal distress. Ellen Ledoux lists off the standard requirements \'97 \'93a distressed heroine, domestic incarceration, threats of sexual violence, anxiety about monstrous or absent mothers\'94 (2) / \'93women\'92s domestic incarceration, sexual violence, economic disenfranchisement and spectral maternity\'94 (2). [TODO: Throw in a couple other definitions here, esp Ellen Moers] A definition based on the theme of female persecution enabled work like Sandra Gilbert and Susan Gubar\'92s Madwoman in the Attic (1979), Kate Ferguson Ellis\'92s The Contested Castle (1989), Eugenia DeLamotte\'92s Perils of the Night (1990), and Helene Meyers\'92s Femicidal Fears (2001) to [take seriously [specifically female experiences of the threats of patriarchy]]. As their titles show, these works [pursue [individual kinds of fears/themes/motifs] / use the particularity of [motifs?] to tie texts together.] Concurrently, [attention to gendered authorship][enables] Juliann Fleenor\'92s The Female Gothic (1983), Diane Long Hoeveler\'92s Gothic Feminism (1998), Emma Clery\'92s Women\'92s Gothic (2000), [Pickering and Chatto published a 5-volume series Varieties of Female Gothic (2002)] and Donna Heiland\'92s Gothic and Gender (2004) [to turn their attention to gender itself / make claims on the scale of gender.] [Make sure to show that both things are good: TODO: Cite whoever it is who praises whichever text it is for its ambitious chronological breadth enabled by the Female Gothic framework]\
Work that complicates our image the Female Gothic \'97 like work that challenges the conventional image of Radcliffean imitators \'97  is not new. Almost as soon as the term came into use, scholars have been pushing against its boundaries, grappling with the true diversity of women\'92s Gothic writing. [TODO: Ellen Moers, and some hint from her regarding the limits.] An attention to the diversity of women\'92s gothic writing is picking up steam. The Female Gothic: New Directions (2009), edited by Andrew Smith and Diana Wallace. Avril Horner\'92s and Sue Zlosnik\'92s Edinburgh Companion on Women and the Gothic (2016) [both do things]. Nonetheless, however, even as Gothic studies grew more complex in other ways, this definition offered something useful in identifying and providing vocabulary for a particular set of texts, so it has been impressively stable. The terms \'93Female Gothic\'94 and \'93women\'92s gothic\'94 are both in currency. Emma Clery\'92s Women\'92s Gothic (2000). The Female Gothic: New Directions (2009). Wallace D (2013) *Female Gothic Histories*. Murphy P (2016) *The New Woman Gothic*. [TODO: Robert Miles, Alison Milbank]. Even Barbara Benedict\'92s \'93\'91Male\'92 and \'91Female\'92 Novels?\'94, which questions the premise of gender division in its title, refers with assurance to \'93the subgenre of the female Gothic, which emphasized the uncertainties of perception that heroines suffer in an obscure, dangerous, patriarchal {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://52350271-81D7-4F5E-81B9-5D04812AED3D"}}{\fldrslt world\'94.}} \cf2 \
[TODO: add Frederick Frank somewhere to this lit review, since he DID do incredibly good work]}