{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 What might unite these tragedies is the increased likelihood of a \'93tragic hero\'94 who appears in the network graph as a distinct, singular centre of the network. These central nodes are typically connected to a large number of other nodes which may be only sparsely connected to each other, with a disproportionately high number of heavily weighted edges connecting outward (indicating that they have given long speeches) with little to no reciprocation. In other words: a Hamlet. \'93Hamlet\'94 nodes can be seen in 
\i Hamlet
\i0 , of course, and in 
\i Macbeth
\i0 , 
\i Timon of Athens
\i0 , and 
\i King Lear
\i0 . In 
\i Antony & Cleopatra
\i0 , it seems that Antony and Cleopatra are in competition to see who gets to be the \'93Hamlet\'94 node; 
\i Julius Caesar
\i0  and 
\i Othello
\i0 , too, might show two characters competing for the role. But this pattern is not unique to tragedies: it appears in the histories 
\i Richard III
\i0  and 
\i Henry V
\i0  as well, and in the 
\i Measure for Measure
\i0  and 
\i The Tempest
\i0 , both designated as comedies in the First Folio. This seems to be a case, then, when Chandler\'92s \'93relative prominence\'94 comes into play. A third of the First Folio\'92s tragedies show a distinct \'93Hamlet\'94 node, and if we include the plays with \'93competing Hamlets\'94 fully 58% of the First Folio tragedies show this pattern. In contrast, only 20% of the histories show it, and only 13% of the First Folio\'92s comedies, both of which now have their status as comedies disputed.}