{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red236\green184\blue255;\red206\green187\blue255;\red192\green239\blue251;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c94500\c78400\c100000;\cssrgb\c84700\c79200\c100000;\cssrgb\c79200\c94900\c98800;
}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 It is tantalizingly tempting, with small samples, to draw conclusions{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://A783156D-6EDB-43F7-9009-64ABAE08CF75"}}{\fldrslt .}} \cb2  [After all, we\'92re good at analysis / pattern-matching / filling in gaps.] [But these conclusions aren\'92t true.] \cb1 Complaints about small sample sizes in the social sciences are more than just lip service: an experiment with a too-small sample will look like a meaningful experiment, offering up results ripe for interpretation;\cb2  [the problem is that these results are probably false.] In the case of this classifier experiment, Frank-Tracy-inner-join actually REDUCED accuracy, down to 60%, because it also reduced the size of the sample.] [But, more broadly, half the existence of the \'93Female Gothic\'94 framework seems like it can be chalked up to reasoning overmuch from small samples.] \cb3 [?This was Ledoux\'92s argument: \'93QUOTE\'94] \cb2 [As a concrete example, we can consider the conventional association of subterranean passages with the Female {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://F9BEAF68-8DB1-437A-9115-5E3468808026"}}{\fldrslt Gothic.]}} However, [Tracy\'92s bibliography in fact shows that ]\cb1  the Radcliffean plot elements of subterranean passages (61% male), caves (61% male), and secret doors (59% male) turn out to be firmly correlated with male authors, not female. This is not to say that these motifs are not Radcliffean: Radcliffe alone accounts for 7% of all caves, 11% of all secret doors, and an astonishing 15% of all subterranean passages. Indeed, she is the top author for both subterranean passages and secret doors. But beyond Radcliffe, these tropes have been disproportionately adopted by men, not women. The critical emphasis on subterranean passages and caves as crucial Gothic tropes can likely be explained by who makes the \'93top 10\'94 lists of their use, as seen in Figure <$n#:figs:caves>. Although neither motif appears widely throughout the Gothic, they repeat within the works of all four authors typically taken as the landmark writers of the genre: Walpole for the Gothic\'92s birth, Radcliffe and Lewis for its flourishing, and Maturin for its end. Anything prominently used by all four is surely ripe for closely-read comparison. But those comparisons illuminate more about the individual authors than the Gothic\'92s general usage; and, in the case of subterranean passages, they tell us more about Radcliffe than they do a women\'92s Gothic. \cb2 [We have learned, from Tracy, a valuable lesson about small sample sizes.]\cb1 \
\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb4 Figure <$n:figs:caves>: TODO: figure-ify the top 10 authors for subterranean passages and caves.\cb1 \
}