{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 TODO: Revise this paragraph so evidence more strongly points to argument:\
\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\i \cf0 Frank\'92s Gothic mainstream is largely non-gendered. The two most prevalent tags in the corpus as a whole, representing all Gothics without attention paid to authorial gender, are \'93Gothic\'94 (83% of all works) and \'93pure/high\'94 (39%), both of which have the same gendered distribution of the sample as a whole. Our only hint of a gendered trend among the most widespread tags is the third most prevalent tag, \'93terror\'94 (34% of works), which, at 50% female, is somewhat above the female baseline of 43%. The next two tags in prominence are not informative about genre variation, but instead highlight the multiplicity of Frank\'92s assessments: the tags \'93mode\'94 and \'93elements\'94 are each applied to 27% of all works in the sample. These terms generally appear as qualifiers for his other assessments, as in \'93terror mode\'94 or \'93sentimental elements,\'94 and accordingly remind us to modify the implied force of \'93terror\'94 and \'93sentimental\'94 as tags. Indeed, many of Frank\'92s tags are essentially qualifiers: \'93mode\'94, \'93effects\'94, \'93Gothified\'94, and \'93imitation,\'94 for example. In Frank\'92s Gothic typology, then, the Gothic is not monolithic: each work assembles multiple elements, which have their sources elsewhere, and are all interconnected. Nothing for Frank is just one genre. Even horror and terror are far from mutually exclusive. Of the 53 \'93horror\'94 works, 26 (49%) are also tagged \'93terror\'94. These 26 are 50% by men, making the horror-terror mode more predictive of male authorship than horror alone. Of the remaining 27 works which are purely horror, no terror, there are 9 by women, 9 by men, and 9 unknown \'97 a far cry from the horror Gothic as the exclusive province of men. Between the two, the only part that\'92s consistent is that terror vastly outnumbers horror. There are gendered currents, but none of them are striking enough to start making predictions about the many unsigned works.}