{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\deftab720
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\fi700\sl480\slmult1\qj\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Returning to that first invocation of \'93acknowledge[ing] the truth,\'94 for example, when Bridget is unexpectedly gentle toward the infant foundling: the interpreted truth of her \'93muttering\'94 gives us something to \'91get\'92 and enjoy so that we feel we have extracted the paragraph\'92s comic pleasure, and are \'91done\'92 with it. This is the \'93submission to readerly \'91Interest\'92\'94 that Sharon Sherman argues drives his \'93management of text to everyone's material advantage\'94 (375): the obfuscations exist not to provide clues, but to prevent the paragraph from being suspiciously absent of literary pleasure. Similarly, when Bridget is \'93delighted\'94 by Captain Blifil\'92s religious views, and \'93engage[s] him in many religious controversies\'94 with \'93great satisfaction\'94 in his knowledge and his compliments, we are deflected from a correct understanding by an assurance of the truth and a joke:\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li1432\fi-4\ri720\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf2 To say the Truth, she had read much 
\i English
\i0  Divinity, and had puzzled more than one of the neighbouring Curates. Indeed her Conversation was so pure, her Looks so sage, and her whole Deportment so grave and solemn, that she seemed to deserve the Name of Saint equally with her Namesake, or with any other Female in the 
\i Roman
\i0  Kalendar. (I.x)\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li1432\fi-4\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\sl480\slmult1\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Bridget may indeed have discussed divinity bafflingly with the local curates, and has certainly cultivated a \'93conversation,\'94 \'93looks,\'94 and \'93deportment\'94 that signal purity to outsiders, but the narrator again presents us with a truth in order to direct our attention away from the truth. We might decide that the joke is that she is less clever than she thinks, or much more boring, or we might return to the joke that \'93this Guard of Prudence [\'85] is always readiest to go on Duty where there is the least Danger\'94 (I.ii) and decide that the punchline is her unattractiveness. Or the invocation of sainthood might provide a different form of decoy satisfaction altogether by inviting smug anti-Catholic sentiment. Regardless, the narrator avoids giving us sufficient assistance at this point to see her sexual interest in Captain Blifil. To examine this passage for evidence for Bridget\'92s true interiority rather than waiting for Fielding to illuminate it\'97 to pore over its evidence trying to make rational, probabilistic predictions, rather than turning the page\'97 is to read against the novel\'92s grain.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\fi700\sl480\slmult1\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf2 If the novel is an experimental model, then, it is a well-constructed and consistent one, but one which actively discourages us from pondering its structures or trying to figure out where it is leading next. Despite its clear interest in trials and judgment, it does not call on its readers to carry out their own investigations. Instead, it is built around what Eleanor Hutchens calls Fielding\'92s \'93lawyerlike delight in making facts add up to the unexpected\'94 (qtd Baker 749): the narrator\'92s invocations of \'93saying truth\'94 highlight a multitude of ways that statements of truth can be partial and misleading, exemplified in his own verbal evasions, but the readerly action which is most rewarded by the novel is that of laughing along. The arrangement of the evidence may allow Fielding to prosecute his case, or to present a compelling experiment, but as each fact is first presented, the narrator\'92s honesty is subordinated to the narrative\'92s surprises.}