{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf810
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 This dissertation will build on my previous research on the Gothic novel 1790-1830. Late eighteenth-century literary production, as the period\'92s critics anxiously noted, was characterized by excessive volume. The English Short Title Catalogue (ESTC) records roughly sixteen thousand works published in England the 1730s, a figure which has doubled by the 1780s (which see thirty-two thousand works), and tripled by the 1790s (which see forty-eight thousand). As circulating libraries, too, increased in number, each book could reach more readers. In this context of what Michael Gamer describes as \'93exploding literacy rates accompanied by an increasingly bewildering and diverse collection of reading audiences\'94 (32), it became ever harder to make sense of the literary world as a cohesive whole. My MA research sought to contextualize the novels of Gothic writers Matthew Lewis and Ann Radcliffe by setting them alongside their now-forgotten peers from the shelves of circulating libraries. I was interested in investigating the critical association of these authors with distinctly gendered male and female schools of writing. I examined plot information from two bibliographies of the Gothic, and found that Matthew Lewis\'92s *
\i The Monk*
\i0  was, indeed, characteristic of a minor group of \'93Male Gothic\'94 novels containing elements of horror and violence not to be found in works by women. However, my method did not reveal any corresponding subject matter that was the sole domain of women writers in several hundred novels.\cb1  Moreover, it revealed many ways in which Ann Radcliffe\'92s novels were markedly different from the rest of the texts usually assigned to the \'93school of Radcliffe.\'94 My dissertation will build on this work. I will continue to contextualize Radcliffe among her peers, but I will not begin by trying to isolate the determining characteristics of a self-contained field of \'93the Gothic.\'94 Instead, m\cb3 y primary aim will be to capture the great variety within the literary realm as a whole in England from 1789 to 1799.}