{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf810
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\fi700\sl480\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \'93Most critics who have given any attention to Mrs. Radcliffe as a novelist have decided that she is important chiefly for her use of the supernatural, and for her emphasis upon landscape. Although she is, indeed, a pioneer in both these fields, it has seemed to me that, after all, her most important contribution is a matter not of theme, but of structure.\'94 (McIntyre 77)\
\'93Mrs. Radcliffe\'92s method is founded upon the principle // which Walpole tried with imperfect success to embody in his work \'97 the principle of suspence\'94 (79-80)\
Radcliffe\'92s peers are \'93Matthew Gregory Lewis, Mrs. Inchbald, and Charlotte Smith\'94 (93)\
\'93One of the reviews of /The Mysteries of Udolpho/ closes with these words: \'91This is the best composition of this kind since Mrs. Inchbald\'92s /Simple Story/.\'92 The expression, \'91this kind,\'92 is a little puzzling here. The reviewer must surely be thinking of fiction in general, for, except that they are both fiction, two compositions could hardly be more unlike than The Mysteries of Udolpho and A Simple Story.\'94 (McIntyre 94) \'93\'85the ethical purpose of the book is rather too obvious for successful art. Mrs. Radcliffe, it is true, was strictly moral\'85 but her main interest does not lie there.\'94}