{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf810
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl480\slmult1

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Building toward a reading of the writing style of George Eliot, this book examines in detail the historical conditions of the rise of the anthology and its relationship to the seemingly un-anthologizable novel. Of particular interest is her detailed investigation of the many reworkings of 
\i Clarissa
\i0  published alongside that text, from tables-of-contents meant to help readers \'91catch up\'92 to a current volume to editions consisting only of the Bible verses Clarissa reads. Price draws attention to the ways in which all reading, and particularly all scholarly writing, must involve a constant re-editing of texts, influenced by memory and argument. She concludes with an argument that the works of George Eliot are written intentionally to anticipate their anthologies.\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi540\sl480\slmult1\qj

\f1 \cf0 These changes are in keeping with Leah Price\'92s argument that editing a text does not simply produce a deformed version of the original, but rather produces a new text. Price takes Samuel Richardson\'92s 
\i Clarissa
\i0  as the prime example of a novel surrounded by re-edited versions of itself; as she notes, each new abridgement reveals its editor\'92s \'93unspoken assumptions about the most efficient way to convey information, and indeed what counts as information at all\'94 (13). In the years after 
\i Clarissa
\i0 \'92s completion, alternate versions proliferated, each rewriting Richardson\'92s text to suit a new niche: abridgements in which the epistolary format has been replaced with an impersonal retrospective narrator (15); collections of \'93moral sentiments\'94 excerpted and arranged alphabetically (17); an anthology of the Bible verses mentioned, but not quoted, in the novel, intermingled with both excerpts and summaries (24). Even the index of chapters, originally prefixed to the second edition \'93in the expectation that readers would have forgotten the beginning by the time they reached the end\'94 (13), circulated as an independent pamphlet that could not just supplement the full text, but potentially replace it (17). Most importantly, several of these rewritings were carried out by Richardson himself; as the author of the original, he would have no need to identically replicate his own approach, but must have arranged each new editions with a different slant.\
Richardson\'92s case establishes the general principle; when Price turns her attention to Radcliffe, she sees Radcliffe\'92s works as primarily interesting for their intermingling of prose with poetry. Radcliffe\'92s \'93beauties\'94 (92), she argues, play the same role as do Richardson\'92s sentiments: readers may attempt to race through the book \'93wth. a View only to 
\i Story
\i0 \'94 (Richardson, qtd. in Price 21), but the structure of the book itself will discipline them.  Price\'92s description of 
\i Clarissa
\i0  seems equally apt for the works of both authors: \'93the sententious passages which pepper the novel itself are designed less (through their content) to inculcate specific moral lessons than (through their structure) to regulate the pace of reading\'94 (21). However, there is no need to interpret Radcliffe\'92s \'93embellishments\'94 (95) as punitive. If nothing else, epigraphs and poems are an unlikely choice of corrective for an author battling the sin of skipping, since their typographical isolation allows readers to identify and ignore them almost without a thought.  Rather, I argue that Radcliffe\'92s notably extensive \'93beauties\'94 are, like the technique of the explained supernatural, part of the political-aesthetic agenda discussed above.
\f0 \

\f1 Just as her rational explanations allowed Radcliffe to incorporate empowering myths unapologetically into modern literature, so too do her \'93embellishments\'94 allow her to demonstrate her literary seriousness. Price herself notes that the prevalence in the novel of material that ought not be skipped, particularly her original poetry, \'93differentiates Radcliffe,\'94 in reviewers\'92 minds, \'93from mere entertainers\'94 (97). But Radcliffe doesn\'92t simply write and quote poetry: she also fills her text with landscapes and architecture, drawing on the literary traditions of travel narratives; with moral contemplations that wouldn\'92t be out of place in popular sentimental novels; with dramatic structures and staging that owe an obvious debt to the theatre; and, of course, with all the traditions of romance. Even the frustrating digressions of her comic servants come straight from Shakespeare. Walpole had, much earlier, \'93designedly\'94 introduced bumbling servants based on the model of a \'93higher authority,\'94 namely, \'93the great master of nature, SHAKESPEARE\'94 (22). Indeed, Walpole provides a direct description of the Gothic-as-new-Classic framework, comparing Shakespeare to \'93the Grecian sculptor, who, to convey the idea of a Colossus\'85 inserted a little boy measuring his thumb\'94 (22). But whereas Walpole must explain and justify his lineage, Radcliffe allows it to go without saying. Walpole\'92s preface points to specific characters, and scenes, but Radcliffe attributes her epigraphs, whichever play they are drawn from or character they are spoken by, to, simply, \'93Shakespeare.\'94 In the strength of her unifying vision, Radcliffe is like the Romantic poet, discussed by Tilar Mazzeo; she subordinates all her literary borrowings to a singular goal, \'91mastering\'92 them with her individual genius, and thus transforms them. 
\i Udolpho
\i0 \'92s
\i  
\i0 \'93beauties\'94 go beyond embellishment to create a deeply intertextual novel, which is built upon diverse foundations but stands upon its own authority.\
}