{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red26\green26\blue26;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c13333\c13333\c13333;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl220\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 The findings are solidly interesting, with a lot to offer both DH and Shakespeare studies, but suffer from being criminally undersold in its current form. There is a need for modesty in this particular form of scholarship, but the authors have done themselves a disservice by not using their framing question as a point of departure rather than a casual experiment to see \'91if it is possible\'92. Certainly, proposing a specific framing of what we consider to be the defining characteristics of genre is a viable and productive exercise. However, 
\b a critical engagement with genre theory
\b0  will offer this paper a much stronger foundation. If nothing else from this entire review, please walk away with this: don\'92t lose sight of the literary question driving your inquiry and this paper will fulfil its potential to do something important.\
\
Genre in the first folio is perceived as being stable, yet remains a big question in Shakespeare studies. This is an interesting problem for the field, that as far as I know is not satisfactorily resolved. Presenting this as a quantitative problem makes a ton of sense, and follows other quant work in this direction. However, this paper sadly presents this question as an experiment in possibility rather than considering it an opportunity to prove/disprove an existing position on genre divisions in the First Folio. This is a sorely missed opportunity to make your essay visible as scholarship for both sets of audiences, especially because there\'92s been tons of scholarship on this. 
\b Choose one well-received approach and use it as a case study to frame your entire argument
\b0 : This scholar says X about genre in Shakespeare\'92s plays; we\'92re going to use a different method to see if this claim actually holds. (I should add: there is no point in declaring this a \'91new\'92 or otherwise radical method: understate the self-importance of your methods to show what computational advancement can do for these kinds of questions. The fact that you do not do this explicitly is truly commendable.)\
\
If, however, the authors seek to retain the focus on Shakespeare and present their findings within the context of Shakespeare scholarship (rather than as a pilot experiment), then other edits are required to move the paper in this direction. It would be important to situate the experiment proposed by this paper in the context of Shakespeare criticism, particularly around the debates on genre in the first folio. 
\b Such a literature review could be done under the rubric of a hypothesis test
\b0 : that is, to first suggest a hypothesis based on the criticism around the first folio, then use their methods to test it and report their conclusion. To some degree, the authors have done this with the \'93ambiguous\'94 plays that they discuss: their tests of these later-reclassified plays suggest the ways that their methods can put pressure on Shakespeare criticism and potentially even resolve long-standing debates. But, for this conclusion (which, I want to point out, both excellent and highly provocative), the groundwork in Shakespeare criticism is essential.\
\
You begin with one scholarly criticism of genre theory, which is bizarre because 
\b a ton of\
work has been done specifically on genre in Shakespeare\'92s works
\b0  (both quantitative and not).\
There is a wealth of scholarship to frame this project around, and its absence weakens your\
introduction significantly. Literary scholars have debated genre in the Folio for ages: you should\
lean on their claims as reason for doing this project \'96 X says this, Y says this, Which one is\
right? We want to show that network analysis is a viable approach to this question. Leaning on\
the First Folio (hereafter FF) is justifiable but needs more grounding as a method.}