{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\fi700\sl480\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 The math, as indicated in Figure 7, largely supports this assessment. Euphrasia turns out to come second to Dionysius, who accomplishes an average 1.24 degrees of separation by monopolizing his own court. There are four roles who connect to no one but Dionysius: \'93Herald,\'94 \'93Officer,\'94 \'93Officers,\'94 and Perdiccas. Two others, \'93Greek Officer\'94 and \'93Greek Officers,\'94 link only to Dionysius and his officer Melanthon. But Euphrasia, at 1.35 average degrees of separation, addresses or is addressed by all 13 of the remaining roles, including several whom Dionysius does not address. It is because her strategies succeed that Dionysius has no chance to speak to Phocion, or to her \'93Female Attendants.\'94 Perhaps surprisingly, even Arcas, who began the play as one of Dionysius\'92s soldiers, never comes in contact with Dionysius, thanks to Euphrasia\'92s speedy subornment. All of these relations place Euphrasia in a position of power within the play, able to draw on a wide range of resources, and even able usurp Dionysius\'92s own social connections away from him. To see Belvidera ranked between Theodore and \'93Father,\'94 then, calls into serious question Belvidera\'92s status as a heroine in Euphrasia\'92s mode.}