{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red26\green26\blue26;\red255\green255\blue255;\red10\green0\blue109;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c13333\c13333\c13333;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c4314\c0\c50196;
}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320

\f0\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 When English drama was reborn in 1660 with the re-opening of the theatres, the leading tragic style was the male-dominated\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Heroic_drama"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \strokec4 heroic drama}}which celebrated powerful, aggressively\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Masculinity"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \strokec4 masculine}}\'a0heroes and their pursuit of glory, as rulers and conquerors as well as lovers. In the 1670s and 1680s, a gradual shift occurred from\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Heroic"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \strokec4 heroic}}\'a0to\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pathos"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \strokec4 pathetic}}\'a0tragedy, where the subject was love and domestic concerns, even though the main characters might be public figures. After the phenomenal success of\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elizabeth_Barry"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \strokec4 Elizabeth Barry}}\'a0in moving the audience to tears in the role of Monimia in Otway's\'a0
\i The Orphan
\i0 , she-tragedy became the dominant form of pathetic tragedy and remained highly popular for nearly half a century.\
\
\
She tragedies are known for having focused on the hardships of women rather than those suffered by men. A she-tragedy during the 1680s derived its power from the ability to create titillating scenes that portrayed the suffering of an innocent woman.{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/She-tragedy#cite_note-4"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs22\fsmilli11200 \cf4 \super \strokec4 [4]}}\'a0Pathetic tragedies would begin by presenting the heroine and establishing that she was desirable. Unlike the other popular new genre, horror, the she-tragedy did not depend on violence and gore to become the spectacle of the heroine but rather used the physical suffering that was inflicted on the blameless female victims.{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/She-tragedy#cite_note-5"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs22\fsmilli11200 \cf4 \super \strokec4 [5]}}\'a0The women, who were the subject of the play, would usually become victims of adversity and crimes that sexually exploited them such as rape or unsolicited adultery. During the scenes of rape the woman would be abducted and carried off stage. The act of rape, or adultery, would be conveyed to the audience by screams from the woman as the villain completed the evil deed. After the scene the woman would return onstage. Evidences of ravished womanhood such as disheveled hair, disordered clothing, and phallic dagger were trademark of Restoration rape and prominent in she-tragedy.{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/She-tragedy#cite_note-6"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs22\fsmilli11200 \cf4 \super \strokec4 [6]}}\'a0Playwrights would utilize other ill fortune such as the loss of a husband or child and a single mother's struggle to raise her children as another means of causing hardship in the heroine's life. After suffering these hardships throughout the play the female protagonist would be overcome by madness, commit suicide or murder as a result of the burden with which she had suffered.{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/She-tragedy#cite_note-7"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs22\fsmilli11200 \cf4 \super \strokec4 [7]}}\'a0The success of a she-tragedy was dependent upon the emotion that the actress conveyed to the audience, but the emotion that the audience felt as they watched the performance. She-tragedy also focused on making the heroine and not the hero the focus of the play. Attention would be placed on the female actress and her sexuality as playwrights used specific dialogue and devices to focus on the sexuality of the woman. One example of this is seen in The Orphan by Otway. In a scene Monimia is accompanied by a page who states to her "
\i Madam, Indeed I'd serve you with my soul;
\i0 \'a0But n the morning when you call me to you As by your bed I stand and tell you stories, I am asham'd to see your swelling Breasts, It makes me blush, they are so very white
\i ." (1.221-25)
\i0 \'a0Here Otway is directing the audience's eyes to the actress' breasts, making her the focal point, and also sexualizing the actress and the character of Monima.{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/She-tragedy#cite_note-8"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs22\fsmilli11200 \cf4 \super \strokec4 [8]}}}