{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red38\green38\blue38;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c14902\c14902\c14902;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\li390\fi260\sl380

\f0\fs26 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Focusing on the genre of \'93she-tragedy,\'94 Jean Marsden\'92s book offers an account of why the British theater of the Restoration and early eighteenth century fixated on the suffering woman as a figure of arousal, sympathy, or condemnation\'97often, seemingly, all at once. 
\i Fatal Desire
\i0 ably addresses vital theatrical developments during decades typically identified with rakish comedy and heroic tragedy, foregrounding the instrumentality of pathos and the centrality of women to provide a salutary corrective.\

\i Fatal Desire
\i0  begins by situating the 60 years of the subtitle as a period during which onstage women and the emotional effects they raised in their audiences became a \'93source of cultural anxiety\'94 (5), imperiling both sexual and national virtues. Tracing the Collier controversy over stage profanity and obscenity, Marsden finds unease over moral contagion spreading from lewd play-action to impressionable audiences, principally female spectators. Anti-theatrical polemicists may have found the female gaze threatening\'97but at least they forthrightly admit its power. In contrast, defenses of the stage by practitioners including Congreve and Vanbrugh consider female theatergoers moved only to decorous emulation, never to desire. Marsden perceives this as a telling overcompensation, evidence that prominent Restoration and early eighteenth-century playwrights disregarded the female gaze and accordingly relied upon voyeurism and objectification of women for their own works\'92 emotional and 
\b [End Page 57]
\b0  political effects. Marsden subsequently uses comedy to calibrate a baseline for the \'93problem of the female gaze\'94 (39) in the Restoration-era theater. While the comedies (like 
\i The Plain Dealer
\i0  and 
\i The Provok\'92d Wife
\i0 ) stage characters who indulge their sexual appetites and seize control of the desiring gaze\'97in order to scapegoat them at worst or reform them at best\'97the tragedies reconfigure female agency so as to strip away the \'93aggressive sexuality\'94 (61) and linger over the spectacle of the woman as victim.\
Marsden\'92s four next chapters, the heart of her argument, are dedicated to what she dubs \'93female-centered tragedy.\'94 She discusses in detail works by Otway (
\i The Orphan
\i0 ), Southerne (
\i The Fatal Marriage
\i0 ), and Congreve (
\i The Mourning Bride
\i0 ); the \'93Female Wits\'94 Trotter, Pix, and Manley; and Rowe (
\i The Fair Penitent
\i0 , 
\i Jane Shore
\i0 , and 
\i Jane Gray
\i0 ). Marsden has read impressively widely in the mode, and her work draws on both the nearly-canonical and the ephemeral, anonymous, and scurrilous. Her admonition to continue narratives of British theatrical history past 1700 is especially well-taken. 
\i Fatal Desire
\i0  extends the insights into the cultural work performed by Restoration and eighteenth-century tragedy offered most recently by Lisa Freeman\'92s 
\i Character\'92s Theater
\i0  (2002), which in a key chapter argues that the era\'92s tragedies omit or contain female agency in order to promote nationalism and bourgeois values, and Cynthia Lowenthal\'92s 
\i Performing Identities on the Restoration Stage
\i0  (2003), whose discussion of gender, exoticism, and tragedy traces the emergence of transgressive female heroism in the 1690s. Marsden aptly connects the pervasive dismissal of she-tragedy to a perception that its characteristic emotionalism is soft-hearted or girlish.\
Yet this is not to say that 
\i Fatal Desire
\i0  aims to rehabilitate the often-deprecated she-tragedy. Indeed for Marsden these plays become evidence of a widespread effort to shore up \'93the stability of English sexual and political culture\'94 (63). In she-tragedy, disorderly women who bring categories into crisis are traded among and displayed by gazing men and finally must be terminated with extreme prejudice. Men are led to watch these tableaux of victimization, especially rape and incest, for vicarious sensual gratification or \'93visual pleasure\'94; women are led to sympathize, cry, and become tableaux in turn themselves, heroines becoming both \'93object of pity and object of desire\'94 (76).\
As a result, women who desire and women who have been desired are equally consigned to objectification, debasement, and destruction. Rape plots are sensational staples of the Restoration era, but many tragic women incur punishment for their strong and active passions. Isabella in 
\i The Fatal Marriage
\i0 , whose unwitting adultery leads to her demise, speaks what becomes for Marsden a leitmotif of sorts for the first generation of she-tragedy: \'93Do! Nothing, no, for I am born to suffer.\'94 Rowe\'92s works\'97the \'93second generation\'94\'97minimize the lurid quality of women\'92s sexual sins but not their contaminating effects. Women who \'93overstep the lines of acceptable behavior\'94 (134)\'97even when they do not choose to; or actively choose not to; or do so unwillingly\'97must be eradicated. Calista in 
\i The Fair Penitent
\i0  and Jane Shore are equally rendered exemplary victims, indelibly tainted by their sexual pasts, bereft of sexual agency and reduced to passivity and abjection.\
In somewhat of a departure\'97but a welcome one\'97near the end Marsden turns to historicize the she-tragedy in the conventional sense, reading
\i Jane Gray
\i0  as pro-Hanoverian 
\b [End Page 58]
\b0  polemic. But Rowe\'92s virtuous heroine this time around was 
\i excessively
\i0  passionless in her patriotism, incapable of supporting the requisite erotic interest of a viable she-tragedy, and consequently 
\i Jane Gray
\i0  fails. An afterword contends that drama swung away from she-tragedy when \'93female sexuality became increasingly risky to stage\'94 (192).\
Marsden\'92s approach is indebted to the film studies of Laura Mulvey and Teresa de Lauretis, and the gaze remains the abiding category of analysis throughout 
\i Fatal Desire
\i0 . Marsden\'92s emphasis on \'93sexual spectacle\'94 leads her to conclude that the audience for she-tragedy is taught that victimized women get what they deserve\'97and that watching them, whether to cry or to leer, is a thrill. This commitment to sexual spectacle as the core of she-tragedy is both 
\i Fatal Desire
\i0 \'92s distinctive contribution and its major constraint. In the epilogue to 
\i Jane Shore
\i0 , where he coins the phrase \'93she-tragedy,\'94 Rowe does not focus on sexual spectacle. There, Anne Oldfield, who had played Jane, enumerates women\'92s everyday vices as \'93ill-nature, pride, hypocrisy and gaming\'94 and jokes that tragedies staging such qualities\'97to wit, \'93she-tragedies\'94\'97 might \'93o\'92errun the nation.\'94 At the inception of the expression, then, she-tragedy is not solely predicated upon sex. When a tragedy like Trotter\'92s 
\i Agnes de Castro
\i0  or Rowe\'92s 
\i Jane Gray
\i0  promotes a sexless, stoic idea of civic virtue, is it to challenge a predominant voyeuristic mode\'97or are these plays, too, mainstream she-tragedies by a different definition? Does all \'93visual pleasure\'94 derive from objectification and disempowerment, or are there alternative conceptions of female spectacle and agency? Moreover, Helen Thompson\'92s 
\i Ingenuous Subjection
\i0  (2005) and Scott Paul Gordon\'92s
\i The Power of the Passive Self
\i0  (2002) argue against making resistance the touchstone for autonomy in the eighteenth century, especially for women. If quiescence is not necessarily complicity, a persecuted woman like the protagonists of she-tragedy might be more a martyr than an object of desire or scapegoat for cultural anxiety.\
Nonetheless, Marsden should be commended for giving what amounts to the first fully-fledged account of she-tragedy: how it emerged, how it evolved, and the uses to which it was put. 
\i Fatal Desire
\i0  is a searching and stimulating study that succeeds in shifting our own gaze to the period\'92s foremost theatrical concerns.}