{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\deftab720
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\fi720\sl480\slmult1

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
In investigating social relationships, I am interested in speech as an act in itself, as discussed in J. L. Austin\'92s 
\i How To Do Things With Words
\i0 : any utterance, he argues, is in some sense an attempt to perform some effect upon the world. Just as attempted acts of other kinds carry weight beyond their content, agency and power relations shape not just what people say to each other, but who speaks to whom in the first place, and how much they say. However, these complex relationships require abstraction in order to be perceived in their entirety; accordingly, to take in these social structures as a whole, I have turned to digital methods, and visualized the characters\'92 verbal interactions as a network map (Figure 1). Working from the Gutenberg and Early English Books Online digital texts for technical ease, checking against my print copy for accuracy, I encoded the speakers, addressees, and numbers of lines into a spreadsheet by hand. Then I used the visualization software Gephi to convert these individual vectors to a full network map. The resulting map, like a complex passage in a work of literature, is not easily apprehended at first glance and requires close reading. Importantly, however, what is being close read is no longer 
\i Venice Preserv\'92d
\i0  in itself: Franco Moretti, my predecessor in this enterprise, correctly notes that \'93
\f1 once you make a network of a play, you stop working on the play proper, and work on a model instead\'94 (5). A model, as Willard McCarty suggests, intentionally compresses or elides many details of an object in order to render visible a different set of underlying details or structures. 
\f0 In this instance, to map 
\i Venice Preserv\'92d
\i0  as a social network models the play itself as a set of interactions between characters, with the most salient features being length, direction, and frequency of address. This method seeks to see speech not as linguistic content, but as a social action. In the image, these speech acts are represented by curved lines. Each speech act is represented as one light gray curve; the width of the curve reflects the length of the speech. If one character speaks to another repeatedly, these gray curves will layer over each other and thicken to approach black. Two characters who speak to each other reciprocally will be joined by two curves, as in the Jaffeir-Belvidera relationship. This lets us see, for example, that Belvidera and Priuli\'92s \'93Servants,\'94 unlike the \'93Officer,\'94 are not permitted to speak back to those giving them their orders. The network also shows both Belvidera and Jaffeir speaking more, and longer, to Priuli than they are spoken to, a relationship perhaps more likely to be less readily apparent in the full script of the play. 
\f1 Implicit in my reading of this model is the assumption that the ability to speak requires some level of social agency. Some speech acts will accomplish their goals and some will not\'97 fates which are not visualized here\'97 but all attempts require
\f0  that the words have someone to act 
\i upon
\i0 .}