{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\fi700\sl480\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Thomas Otway\'92s 
\i Venice Preserv\'92d
\i0  is often read as a play of competing value systems failing to achieve victory; this form of enacted social debate is, in many ways, the form of tragedy itself, but it is reinforced in a transitional play that is also in conflict with its own genre, 
\f1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
neither fully a pathetic tragedy nor a she-tragedy. Jean Marsden, like many others, ends her list of authors of seventeenth century she-tragedies by noting that 
\f0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \'93a case can also be made for including Thomas Otway on this list\'94 (65), but it is more usually Otway\'92s 
\i The Orphan
\i0  whose heroine attracts attention. Nonetheless, Belvidera\'92s affective spectacle has prompted a complex debate about the gendered politics of the play. Rogers and Gruber both read the play\'92s central conflict as one of masculine versus feminine, but draw different conclusions from what they see as the ultimate defeat of the feminine. Rogers argues that, despite the homosocial focus of the plot, Otway 
\f1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
expresses a \'93confidence in feminine values\'94 and \'93affirms their validity in balance with masculine ones\'94 (391), turning the audience\'92s tears at Belvidera\'92s death into a lesson about Belvidera\'92s value. Gruber, in contrast, sees no such development of Belvidera as an individual, and argues that the defeat of the feminine is displayed for prurient enjoyment by an unproblematically masculinized audience. To further explore Belvidera\'92s role in the overall structure of the plot, I have turned my attention to the social relations staged in the play. Agency, at its core, requires the ability to act upon the world; particularly at issue in this play, which is so attuned to shifting personal allegiances, is the ability to act upon a social world. Belvidera\'92s individual conversations are often highly successful in the short term, but unsuccessful in the broader context of the play: for Rogers this might mean that Belvidera\'92s approach is valuable but incompatible with a hostile masculine world; for Gruber, that Belvidera\'92s agency was illusionary in the first place. Despite Belvidera\'92s obvious importance to the play\'92s impact as a transitional she-tragedy, I argue that Gruber is correct: the play creates a world in which Belvidera\'92s personhood is consistently marginalized.}