{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\fi700\sl480\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Belvidera, in contrast, is less central than \'93Officer\'94 and even \'93Officer 2,\'94 and less central than any of the conspirators\'97 far from matching Hamlet as a protagonist, she is the second-most-marginalized named character, her 1.96 degrees of separation only barely beating out Aquilina\'92s 2.11. Here it may be instructive to introduce a comparison to a she-tragedy heroine whose status is not in dispute. I modelled Arthur Murphy\'92s 1772 drama 
\i The Grecian Daughter
\i0  by the same methods as 
\i Venice Preserv\'92d
\i0 , to examine Euphrasia as the sort of heroine for which Belvidera may be an ancestor. 
\i The Grecian Daugher
\i0  has a smaller cast than 
\i Venice Preserv\'92d
\i0 , and presents a much smaller and tighter network, so Figure 5 presents them at the same scale as a general indication of their relationship. Figure 6 allows us to examine 
\i The Grecian Daughter
\i0  directly. Euphrasia is visibly central to several orderly, symmetrical groupings \'97 Melanthon/Phocion/Evander/Euphrasia, for example, or Philotas/Melanthon/Euphrasia. What is not at all balanced is the Dionysius/Euphrasia/Evander triad, which, despite the fact that the conflict is ostensibly between Dionysius and Evander\'92s crown, clearly favours the two axes of relationship that feature Euphrasia. This contrast highlights how, even at first glance, Belvidera remains far from the bulk of the play, with a small number of strong connections rather than the wide-ranging web which involves Euphrasia in all aspects of her play\'92s plot.}