{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\fi700\sl480\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Tied to centrality, but not synonymous with it, is a character\'92s role in the the structural stability of the network. Stability is a feature that is visible only once we take advantage of the nature of the model as a theoretical construct, and begin to intervene in the system that it represents. In the case of Moretti\'92s investigation of 
\i Hamlet
\i0 , this meant removing various characters to see the negative image of their roles in the social cohesion of the play\'92s world. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Removing Hamlet from the play\'92s network fragments it dramatically, Moretti finds, but removing Claudius has little impact. The difference has to do with clustering: an aera of a network is highly-clustered when the odds are high that two people who share a social tie have the same mutual acquaintances. Claudius is at the heart of a highly-clustered part of the network: he knows Polonius and Ophelia, and they know each other, and they also both know Claudius\'92s other connections. Removing Claudius does not remove Gertrude\'92s connection to Hamlet or even to Laertes. Hamlet\'92s social world is less clustered: Laertes doesn\'92t know the Gravedigger, and neither of them knows Horatio. Horatio, in fact, turns out to be the second-most structurally critical member of the play, after Hamlet himself, serving as the crucial connector for many non-clustered social ties. Moretti maps these highly-clustered and low-clustered areas to the ideas of \'93court\'94 (in which governance is familial) and \'93state\'94 (in which governance is bureaucratic), but this interpretation translate less neatly to 
\i Venice Preserv\'92d
\i0 . The variation in clustering in 
\i Venice Preserv\'92d
\i0 \'97 as rendered visible by the relative density of names in various parts of the network map\'97 seems to suggest, not two social orders, but one largely messy dominant group, and a smaller, isolated offshoot. }