{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c99997\c99999;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c99997\c99999;
}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Nicholas Rowe coined the term \'93she-tragedy\'94 in 1714 to refer to a recently successful kind of tragedy, which takes advantage of the still-new presence of actresses on the Restoration stage to present spectables of female suffering. She-tragedies took pathetic tragedy to its logical extreme, and were extremely different from the heroic dramas that pre-dated them. The characteristic marginalization-yet-theatrical-power is captured in the dynamics of the play\'92s social network, as the heroines speak at great length but to few people and little effect, in contrast to the debates and wide-ranging social circulation of the central male figures in heroic dramas. The most mesmerizing she-tragedy heroines instead speak directly to their audiences. As theatrical tastes shift toward bourgeois drama, it seems as if women remain marginalized through their continued alliance with the domestic, but in fact a shift occurs in the amount of agency they are able to show. As the mere presence of an actress on the stage becomes more familiar, the theatrical/social activities of heroines and heroes become more similar. \
Can I tell which plays were less impressive as she-tragedies because their heroines speak less to the audience?\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb4 My article is about how and why the heroines of tragedies went from being socially proscribed to occupying the same structural plot roles as male heroes of tragedies over the course of the long 18th century.\cf2 \cb3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Something about the shift from heroic drama to pathetic tragedy and back again? My argument may be that, when theatrical tastes shift away from pathetic tragedy and toward bourgeois drama, this doesn\'92t look like a change in women\'92s status on the stage, but it actually is, because they get more agency.\
But I need way more proof than I have for those claims.\
What I\'92ve actually shown is that my social networks can detect the difference between a heroic drama and a pathetic tragedy. Agency and speech are intimately connected in plays (as makes sense). Although she-tragedy heroines are marginalized in the world of their plays, they make direct claims on the audience\'92s sympathy; they are distinct from the heroic drama before and the bourgeois drama after in their attempt to speak directly out from the stage.\
\
Venice Preserv\'92d (1682), The Grecian Daughter (1772)\
\
I think my new argument is that, when women are first introduced to tragedies their mere spectacular presence is sufficient to make an enormous impression on the audience \'97 but as the genre of she-tragedy is established, the heroines become more similar to the male heroes they displace.\
(Does this reflect some kind of changing attitude about women\'92s agency?)}