{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c99997\c99999;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;
}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The Heroine of Eighteenth Century She-Tragedy, in Her Network\

\i (revise to include the word \'93graph\'94 if I am accepted?)
\i0\b0 \cf2 \cb3 \
The gendered role of the actress on stage, from the seventeenth century through the eighteenth, is often discussed in terms of the spectacle of the female body. In contrast, I turn my attention to the role of speech. In the eighteenth-century fad for \'93she-tragedy,\'94 a heroine could have an overwhelming impact on theatregoers \'97 but often very little impact on her fellow characters. This paper uses computational social network analysis of fifty plays 1670
\fs24 \cf4 \cb1 \'96
\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 1770 to abstract and compare heroines\'92 positions within the social worlds of their plays. Each social network models the number, length, and direction of each character\'92s lines in the play, building a map of characters\'92 relationships as reflected in their speech acts. Handmade networks of Thomas Otway\'92s 
\i Venice Preserv\'92d
\i0  (1682) and Arthur Murphy\'92s 
\i The Grecian Daughter
\i0  (1772) show a strong contrast between Belvidera\'92s extremely limited social sphere in 
\i Venice Preserv\'92d
\i0 ,
\i  
\i0 and
\i  
\i0 Euphrasia\'92s social centrality and plot agency in 
\i The Grecian Daughter
\i0 . What both heroines have in common, however, is a particular use of asides and soliloquies. When the audience is modelled as the target of these speeches, and therefore represented as a node in the social network of the play, the true importance of the heroine becomes visible. Computationally-generated networks of selected plays from the century of theatrical development between 
\i Venice Preserv\'92d
\i0  and 
\i The Grecian Daughter
\i0  contextualize the differences between Belvidera and Euphrasia as social agents on- and off-stage. Taking up the interrelated histories of the heroic drama, the pathetic tragedy, and the bourgeois drama, this paper articulates a definition of the she-tragedy based on how and to whom the heroine is able to speak.\
\
\
Although she-tragedy heroines are marginalized in the world of their plays, they make direct claims on the audience\'92s sympathy. They are distinct from the heroes of heroic drama before and the bourgeois drama after in their ability to speak directly out from the stage.\
when theatrical tastes shift away from pathetic tragedy and toward bourgeois drama, this doesn\'92t look like a change in women\'92s status on the stage, but it actually is, because they get more agency.\
Social network graphs let us see whether she-tragedy heroines are socially marginalized, seperately from the question of their agency within the plot of the play}