{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red38\green38\blue38;\red59\green47\blue18;\red6\green56\blue98;
\red45\green45\blue45;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c14902\c14902\c14902;\csgenericrgb\c23137\c18431\c7059;\csgenericrgb\c2353\c21961\c38431;
\csgenericrgb\c17647\c17647\c17647;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\fi700\sl480\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 King matter-of-factly declares that \'93
\f1\fs26 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Euphrasia drives the plot, being onstage close to two-thirds of the time\'94 (203).\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs48 \cf3 Delicately Corrected and Constantly Befriended:\
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs40 \cf3 Arthur Murphy\'92s Female Characters\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Barbara Mackey King
\f1\fs40 \cf3 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\fi700\sl480\slmult1\pardirnatural

\fs26 \cf2 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\li390\sl380
\cf2 Of all Murphy\'92s tragic heroines, Euphrasia, the heroine of 
\i The Grecian Daughter
\i0  (1769/1772){\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/studies_in_eighteenth_century_culture/v043/43.king.html#f31"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs22 \cf4 \super 31}}
\fs22 \super  
\fs26 \nosupersub has to be the one the most 
\i constantly befriended
\i0 . First, Euphrasia drives the plot, being onstage close to two-thirds of the time. Murphy\'92s four tragedies all deal with tyrannical usurpation; however, in this play it is the aging king\'92s daughter who takes premeditated action to solve the dilemma. Her most memorable action appears in Act II where she gains entrance to see her father, sentenced to starve to death in a cave, and she nurses him with her own infant\'92s milk. Looking in the (offstage) cave, the guard see her and says:\
\pard\pardeftab720\li440\sl320

\fs22 \cf5 O! I can hold no more; at such a sight\uc0\u8232 Ev\'92n the hard heart of tyranny would melt\u8232 To infant softness [\'85] 
\b [End Page 203]
\b0 \
Behold that unexampled goodness; see\uc0\u8232 Th\'92expedient sharp necessity has taught her;\u8232 The father foster\'92d at his daughter\'92s breast!\u8232 O! filial piety! \'97 the milk design\'92d\u8232 For her own offspring, on the parent\'92s lip\u8232 Allays the parching fever.{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/studies_in_eighteenth_century_culture/v043/43.king.html#f32"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs18 \cf4 \super 32}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\li390\sl380

\fs26 \cf2 She takes decisive means to save her kingdom, not only by suckling her father, but also by convincing the guards to assist her by acting as spies in the tyrant\'92s court. She watches the progress of the battles with rapt attention, shouting in victory as she sees rival soldiers perish in the sea. She taunts the usurper to his face without backing down, and finally, she stabs him in his heart with as much firmness as any masculine hero, gloating over the blood on her dagger\'92s point. The play ends with the restored king giving his crown, not to Euphrasia\'92s husband, who is fighting in the army, but to Euphrasia herself, saying that he hopes that she may become \'93A parent to her people.\'94{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/studies_in_eighteenth_century_culture/v043/43.king.html#f33"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs22 \cf4 \super 33}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\li390\fi260\sl380
\cf2 Like Murphy\'92s three previous tragic heroines,{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/studies_in_eighteenth_century_culture/v043/43.king.html#f34"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs22 \cf4 \super 34}}
\fs22 \super  
\fs26 \nosupersub Euphrasia does not fit the classic mould of the Shakespearean or Aristotelian tragic heroes, but rather, follows the example of Dryden\'92s heroic plays which typically contain exemplary characters as moral paradigms for the audience to follow. Thus Euphrasia is the embodiment of what it means to be the perfect daughter. It is clear that Murphy\'92s eighteenth century audience caught this message, since 
\i The Critical Review
\i0  for March, 1772, reported that spectators were more interested in the relationship between father and daughter than in the theme of tyrannical usurpation:\
\pard\pardeftab720\li440\sl320\sa165

\fs22 \cf5 The fate of Evander and Euphrasia interests us through the whole play[\'85]. The incident on which this tragedy is founded{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/studies_in_eighteenth_century_culture/v043/43.king.html#f35"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs18 \cf4 \super 35}}
\fs18 \super  
\fs22 \nosupersub is one of the most singular examples of filial affection that we meet with in all history, and the author has improved it with all the lively force of description that words can possibly convey.{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/studies_in_eighteenth_century_culture/v043/43.king.html#f36"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs18 \cf4 \super 36}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\li390\fi260\sl380

\fs26 \cf2 Euphrasia not only drives the plot, but presents a remarkably rounded character by portraying different aspects of her personality to different people. She is heroically strong and militant to the invaders, tender and loving to her family, reverent to the gods, and in despair when falsely told her father has been executed. Her masterful persuasion in the scene in Act II in which she begs the guard to allow her to see her father, covers five pages of text, and illustrates a wide variety of moods and approaches. First she begs the guard, throwing herself at his feet, and when that is unsuccessful, 
\b [End Page 204]
\b0  she tries a patriotic plea: \'93Thou, like me,/ Wert born in Greece.\'94 Next she appeals to his filial sense: \'93You have a father, too.\'94 After that she raves in excess: \'93Here will I dwell, and rave, and shriek, and give/ These scattered locks to all the passing winds.\'94 She finally succeeds by shaming the guard\'92s manhood. When he says he dare not let her see her father or else he will be punished, she replies:\
\pard\pardeftab720\li440\sl320

\fs22 \cf5 And if you dare!\'97Is that\uc0\u8232 The voice of manhood? Honest, if you dare!\u8232 \'91Tis the slave\'92s virtue! \'91tis the utmost limit\u8232 Of the base coward\'92s honour.{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/studies_in_eighteenth_century_culture/v043/43.king.html#f37"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs18 \cf4 \super 37}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\li390\sl380

\fs26 \cf2 This ploy succeeds; the guard leaves the tyrant and, as one of Euphrasia\'92s followers, becomes a spy in the enemy\'92s camp.\
\pard\pardeftab720\li390\fi260\sl380
\cf2 When David Garrick first read the manuscript, he exclaimed, \'93The part of the daughter is one of the finest for an actress in all the dramatic circle.\'94{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/studies_in_eighteenth_century_culture/v043/43.king.html#f38"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs22 \cf4 \super 38}}
\fs22 \super  
\fs26 \nosupersub According to Dunbar, the opening night reviews were \'93rapturous [\'85]. The enthusiastic approval of 
\i The Grecian Daughter
\i0  [\'85] was almost wholly free from adverse comments.\'94{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/studies_in_eighteenth_century_culture/v043/43.king.html#f39"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs22 \cf4 \super 39}}
\fs22 \super  
\fs26 \nosupersub Mrs. Thrale held it to be her favorite tragedy, and she wrote in her journal for March/April 1778: \'93Mr. Murphy\'92s Grecian Daughter [sic] is I think unquestionably the best of all our modern tragedies, and all its merit is the power it has over our passions.\'94{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/studies_in_eighteenth_century_culture/v043/43.king.html#f40"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs22 \cf4 \super 40}}
\fs22 \super  
\i\fs26 \nosupersub The Grecian Daughter
\i0  outshone all other tragedies of the period and held the boards for seven decades,{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/studies_in_eighteenth_century_culture/v043/43.king.html#f41"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs22 \cf4 \super 41}}
\fs22 \super  
\fs26 \nosupersub continuing in stock until 1848.{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/studies_in_eighteenth_century_culture/v043/43.king.html#f42"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs22 \cf4 \super 42}}
\fs22 \super  
\fs26 \nosupersub Only four other tragedies were acted more frequently\'97
\i Hamlet, Macbeth, Romeo and Juliet
\i0 , and 
\i Jane Shore
\i0 .{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/studies_in_eighteenth_century_culture/v043/43.king.html#f43"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs22 \cf4 \super 43}}
\fs22 \super  
\fs26 \nosupersub The role of Euphrasia was Sarah Siddons\'92 favorite role and the one she used as her farewell piece.{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/studies_in_eighteenth_century_culture/v043/43.king.html#f44"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs22 \cf4 \super 44}}
\fs22 \super  
\fs26 \nosupersub As late as 1831, the role of Euphrasia was one young actresses felt they had to perform in order to establish their reputations,{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/studies_in_eighteenth_century_culture/v043/43.king.html#f45"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs22 \cf4 \super 45}}
\fs22 \super  
\fs26 \nosupersub much as young men today still feel they must perform 
\i Hamlet
\i0 . As Murphy wrote his four tragedies, the role of the tragic heroine grew in length and plot significance in each succeeding play. Euphrasia, Murphy\'92s ultimate tragic woman, is strong minded, action taking, multi-dimensional, and morally exemplary.}