{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\deftab720
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\fi720\sl480\slmult1

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Moretti\'92s reading of 
\i Hamlet
\i0 , in contrast, is almost entirely interested in characters\'92 relative positions within the network, with speech as simply a useful symptom of a social connection. Nonetheless, his conclusions provide a useful starting place for my own inquiry into 
\i Venice Preserv\'92d
\i0 . The first thing Moretti locates in his model of Hamlet is a structural principle for who lives and dies: except for Horatio and Osric, every character with social ties to both Hamlet and Claudius dies. This arrangement of death is used to support his argument about the play\'92s conflicting social worlds: \'93
\f1 what is truly deadly,\'94 he says, \'93is the characters\'92 position in the network, chained to the warring poles of king and prince. Outside of that red region, no one dies in Hamlet\'94 (4). Moretti\'92s discovery here is useful as a concrete example of the way that a model can, 
\f0 \'93
\f1 like an X-ray,\'94 reveal elements of a works which are otherwise \'93hidden by the very richness of the play\'94 (5). But it also provides a baseline of comparison for an exploration of Venice Preserv\'92d. In a play about corruption, is there one corrupting force whose influence is fatal? In a play about divided loyalties, are there two sides between which it is deadly to be caught? Based on my Figures 2 and 3, the answer seems to be the former: despite a large body of criticism discussing Pierre\'92s dangerous influence, the truly corrupting companion appears to be Renault.}