{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\i\fs22 \cf0 \
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\i0 \cf0 Although our parser has not solved the problem of guessing the specific addressees of a character\'92s speech, and instead tracks characters present on stage during speech, its simplifications allow it to be remarkably extensible. It could be used to parse any play that follows TEI P5 guidelines for performance texts. The parser uses the <role> and <who> tags to build a cast list for each play, and proceeds through the play using <div> tags to determine scene boundaries. Scenes are further subdivided into \'93blocks\'94 based on character exits and entrances, to track who is on stage throughout the scene. If a character speaks or is mentioned in a stage direction (such as an entrance), and has not been named in an exit, they are assumed to be present on stage and able to hear all speech. Each speaking character is connected to all the characters present to hear their speech. These connections are recorded in a network graph, with characters as nodes and shared speech as edges. Edges are weighted based on the number of lines spoken.\
\
To verify that our parser is accurate, we compare our generated network of Hamlet to Moretti\'92s well-known handmade model of that play (2011). Despite some minor differences in how we handle the most peripheral characters like \'93Servant\'94, and our less-minor difference in including the play-within-the-play, the two networks are highly similar. In both, Hamlet has the highest node centrality (the measure of connectedness which Moretti uses as a proxy for his status as protagonist) and highest node degree (the number of times he speaks or is spoken to), with Claudius, Gertrude, and Horatio similar but lagging behind. We concur with Moretti\'92s literary interpretation of these mathematical features.\
\
Our tool improves on Moretti\'92s model by adding direction and weight to each connection. Although this level of detail turned out not to be necessary for the basic task of using network graphs to distinguish between Shakespeare\'92s genres, it may be useful in future work examining a less homogenous corpus of plays, or in work asking different questions about this corpus.}