{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c99997\c99999;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;
\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Frank\'92s women\'92s Gothic challenges few stereotypes of women\'92s writing. \cf4 \cb5 Like Tracy, he indexes slightly more female authors than {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://4F5E4B34-308D-4BA4-BFB5-A2ECFBC3B0F3"}}{\fldrslt male}}\cf2 \cb3 . Three of the most popular tags are even more female-dominated than his woman-heavy sample would lead us to expect: 43% of Frank\'92s corpus is written by women, but that 43% is responsible for 50% of the \'93terror\'94 works, 65% of the \'93Radcliffean\'94 works, and a striking 77% of the \'93sentimental.\'94 Contemporary criticism has worked to revise the eighteenth-century consensus that the literary sphere was overtaken with a flood of dangerous sentimental literature by and for women: Barbara Benedict, for example, ruthlessly debunks a range of \'93manifestly untrue\'94 eighteenth-century perceptions of reading demographics{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://5F9DA29A-FE3B-4F3F-A148-973B284BCF4B"}}{\fldrslt ,}} and many others have agreed that most readers and most writers were men, and even that men and women mostly read the same things. \cf4 \cb5 However, the preponderance of women writing Frank\'92s sentimental works suggests a kernel of truth underlying eighteenth-century critics\'92 panic. It is entirely possible for readers to be mostly male, and authors mostly male, even within the sphere of specifically Gothic publishing, but for female authors to nonetheless write a detectably feminine kind of book. Frank presents us with a Radcliffean, sentimental, terror Gothic which is also a women\'92s Gothic. This women\'92s Gothic is exactly the sort subgenre which would be invisible in Tracy\'92s model, because it doesn\'92t operate by identifiable motif. If we turn away from a serch for privileged subject matter which only women will think to describe \'97 not subterranean passages or blood \'97 and instead observe the less-quantifiable intangibles that Frank uses \'97 tone, attitude, aesthetics \'97 then we can find a broadly popular women\'92s Gothic.}