{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf810
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red83\green83\blue83;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c99997\c99999;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;
\cssrgb\c40000\c40000\c40000;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The Popular Novel, 1790\'961820\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf4 \cb1 The \'91popular novel\'92 was variously defined and understood in the period 1790 to 1820, but the Minerva Press was and has been seen, usually negatively, as its major purveyor. Recent research has substantially corrected and complicated this view, and indicated the varieties of novels and of their popularity and uses during that time. In the onset of modernization and its attendant changes, conflicts, and crises, various kinds of novels, perhaps more than other literary forms, helped their various kinds of readers to understand, negotiate, and learn how to manage both modernization and the anxieties of an age of revolutions. In that process, the novel itself underwent revolutionary change and diversification to become the dominant and mainstream form still used today. 
\fs24 \

\fs29\fsmilli14667 Through the late eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries, \'91modern novel\'92 usually referred to the contemporary novel of sensibility or novel of manners, sentiment, and emulation 
\fs24 \

\fs29\fsmilli14667 By this time, too, a history of the \'91modern novel\'92 emerged attributing its invention to Samuel Richardson and casting it as the expression and promoter of a popular\'97here, middle-class\'97culture, ethos, and will, in a democratizing process of economic, social, cultural, and political \'91progress\'92, drawing national pride from European writers\'92 known enthusiasm for Richardson. 
\fs24 \
p.3: For Barbauld, Richardson\'92s and the modern novel\'92s achievement was to transpose the sublime from the realm of the marvellous and the aristocratic to common life: \'91The moated castle is changed to a modern parlour -- Highlighted Apr 22, 2017p.3: The social location moved \'91down\'92 from high to middle life but the moral and subjective location remained high -- Highlighted Apr 22, 2017\

\fs29\fsmilli14667 Despite this progressive view of the \'91modern novel\'92, most commentators\'97and even modern novelists\'97used the phrase pejoratively, to mean \'91popular\'92 in the sense of widely read, adapted to \'91common\'92 understandings and tastes, and cheap of access. In a 1791 review it was depicted as a mere formula, concocted to a \'91recipe\'92, \'91manufactured\'92 like cheap cotton goods, or recycled from second-hand material. 
\fs24 \

\fs29\fsmilli14667 It was generally assumed that the \'91modern novel\'92 was a \'91circulating library novel\'92, and the terms were interchangeable. By the 1790s it was a commonplace that circulating library novels were at best \'91silly\'92, and more likely \'91pernicious\'92. 
\fs24 \

\fs29\fsmilli14667 That the circulating library novel was popular, for better or, usually, worse, was assumed. The association was closely commercial: most of a new novel\'92s typical print run of a few hundred copies would be purchased by circulating libraries; prominent library proprietors also published novels. 
\fs24 \

\fs29\fsmilli14667 Some modern research suggests that novels were not always the largest proportion of circulating library stock, but at the time it was believed they were. Even if novel titles did not outnumber others in library catalogues, actual borrowings could, since a single novel title might represent numerous copies for the fleeting but intense demand of the \'91season\'92. 
\fs24 \

\fs29\fsmilli14667 As the conservative Blackwood\'92s Magazine thundered 
\fs18\fsmilli9333 \cf5 \up5 (p. 510) 
\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf4 \up0 in 1818: \'91The reader who is capable of understanding Cervantes, Fielding, and Voltaire, is not likely to be a great patron of the Minerva Press; and vice versa, the consumers of the Minerva Press ware have no relish for any of the great works of fiction, either in poetry or prose.\'92
\fs21\fsmilli10667 \cf4 \up10 18 
\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf4 \up0 Similar aspersions were repeated for two centuries.
\fs21\fsmilli10667 \cf4 \up10 19 
\fs24 \cf4 \up0 \

\fs29\fsmilli14667 What, then, of practice at the time? What novels did most people read? Where did they get them? Where did they come from? And\'97most important\'97how did readers use them in everyday life? 
\fs24 \

\fs29\fsmilli14667 The consensus then and since, that most circulating libraries stocked novels that were formula escapist \'91trash\'92 largely by women and for women and servants, is being modified by new quantitative and qualitative research. This finds that the circulating library novel trade was diverse, ranging from J. F. Hughes through the Minerva Press to Henry 
\fs18\fsmilli9333 \cf5 \up5 (p. 511) 
\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf4 \up0 Colburn, and ingenious in its methods, innovative in its products, and knowledgeable about competition and readership.
\fs21\fsmilli10667 \cf4 \up10 21 
\b\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf4 \up0 Almost 30 per cent of the Minerva Press list was not novels. Though women outnumbered its men authors there were many of the latter, there were about as many novels with male as female protagonists, and many novels show sophisticated awareness of gender stereotypes. Many of its novels were at least as well written as the standard fiction of the day, and there was good variety of subgenres, including \'91courtship\'92, \'91didactic\'92, \'91epistolary\'92, \'91Gothic\'92, \'91Gothic elements\'92, \'91sentimental\'92, \'91wedlock\'92, \'91historical\'92, \'91chivalric\'92, \'91development/Bildungsroman\'92, \'91(auto)biography/memoirs\'92, \'91generational\'92, and various combinations. Many Minerva Press novels referred to contemporary issues and events, though cultural and literary references were mainly from common knowledge. Their predominantly middle-class readership often preferred to read about characters somewhat above themselves in social rank and set in unfamiliar or exotic locales, but many novels were preoccupied with questions of personal identity and social location and relationships.
\fs21\fsmilli10667 \cf4 \up10 22 
\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf4 \up0 Such traits indicate not escapism and fantasy but interest in practical issues of real life in the onset of modernity. 
\fs24 \

\b0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Meanwhile, most novels that were popular in the sense of cheap were sold either complete as sixpenny chapbooks or pamphlets or divided in sixpenny periodical numbers or parts.
\fs21\fsmilli10667 \cf4 \up10 25 
\fs24 \cf4 \up0 \

\fs29\fsmilli14667 Complete sixpenny chapbook novels, comprising less than a dozen to several dozen pages of small type, were of two kinds, old favourites and ostensible novelties. 
\fs24 \
\
The myth informing many or most popular/modern novels was the identity-mystery romance, extending from Tom Jones to Fatherless Fanny to Oliver Twist and beyond. This took diverse forms but its core was a plot of exile, recognition, and return.\

\fs29\fsmilli14667 This myth had many variations from Tom Jones to Fatherless Fanny, including self- misrecognition from Lennox and Graves to Austen and Scott, social misrecognition in sentimental and Gothic novels from Walpole and Reeve to Smith and Radcliffe, moral and social misrecognition in Burney and Austen, social-political persecution in Godwin\'92s Caleb Williams and Wollstonecraft\'92s Wrongs of Woman, misrepresentation in Newgate and \'91Silver Fork\'92 novels of the 1820s and 1830s, and so on. Whatever the variant, whether found in owned or rented novels, in sixpenny-chapbook or full-length format, this myth had to be reread, repeatedly re-engaged, hence making certain novels \'91popular\'92, because the conditions the myth addressed continued central to novel readers\'92 real material interests. It was not the only myth readable into the popular novels of these decades, but it was comprehensive, central, powerful, and adaptable and may well, as contemporary commentators like Barbauld suggested, have helped its readers imagine, desire, pursue, and assume what they saw as their \'91rightful\'92 place in the emergent modern state. 
\fs24 \
}