{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 Figure <$n:fig:all-comedies>: Networks graphs of all First Folio comedies, excluding the two problem plays and three romances. \
\
As Table <$n#table:genre-stats> below suggests, comedies are the most straightforward networks to identify. Whereas histories and tragedies often have similar values across our metrics, comedies tend to be distinct. Their smaller casts are more interconnected, which can be visually observed in Figure <$n#fig:all-comedies> above, and can be measured in their networks\'92 higher density, lower eccentricity, and shorter path {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://E3E31819-39B5-4519-A1EE-9A24CDAC92CD"}}{\fldrslt length.}} All of these measures indicate that most characters in a comedy will eventually speak to most other characters. Although comedies often have multiple subplots, we find that these separate stories do not result in highly-separated networks. (See, for example, <$n#fig:midsummer>, 
\i A Midsummer Nights\'92 Dream
\i0 , in which distinct \'93worlds\'94 of the play are nonetheless connected through the bridging character of Bottom.) We theorize that comedic networks are strongly shaped by their final \'93resolution\'94 scenes, which typically bring the cast together for a restoration of social order, and therefore create edges knitting the network together. (See, again, 
\i Midsummer
\i0 , and also Figure <$n#fig:comedy-errors>, 
\i The Comedy of Errors
\i0 , which features two sets of identical twins who avoid each others\'92 presence until the final moments of the play.) Of course, the idea that comedy is about social connection is not new, but that it can be mapped by the way characters relate on the stage provides a novel lens through which to view it.\
\
Figure <$n:fig:midsummer>: 
\i A Midsummer Night\'92s Dream.
\i0 \
Figure <$n:fig:comedy-errors>: 
\i The Comedy of Errors.}