{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf810
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red83\green83\blue83;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c99997\c99999;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;
\cssrgb\c40000\c40000\c40000;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The Gothic Novel and the Lingering Appeal of Romance
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf4 \cb1 Romance, the dominant long-form fiction since 200 CE, is in eclipse for half a century after the rise of the realistic novel, but has a new efflorescence around 1790 in the Gothic novel for a number of reasons. It was a mode of historical writing without any need for accuracy about dates and places, a mode of sentimental writing that found in its villainous anti-heroes an entry point to the sadomasochistic desires of its readers. The chief characteristic of the heroine or hero is passivity, an attitude mirrored in the implied female reader of the Gothic, who seeks escape or retreat into an inner world of fantasy. It is ironic that the Gothic was displaced by 1820 by the historical romance of Scott, who adopted its plots and themes, but set them in a colder verisimilar world. 
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl200\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs18\fsmilli9333 \cf4 WHILE 
\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf4 the origins of most literary genres are lost, either in scholarly controversy or the dark backward and abysm of time, those of the Gothic novel present an admirable clarity. Beneath the papier-m\'e2ch\'e9 machicolations of Strawberry Hill, the antiquarian and aesthete Horace Walpole, inspired by a nightmare involving \'91a giant hand in armour\'92, created at white heat the tale published at Christmas 1764 as The Castle of Otranto. Not one but two genres were thus begun. The one established first was the historical romance, which derived from elements in both Otranto and an earlier romance by Thomas Leland, Longsword, Earl of Salisbury (1762). This form was pioneered by William Hutchinson\'92s The Hermitage (1772), and developed by Clara Reeve (in The Champion of Virtue, 1777, retitled The Old English Baron in 1778) and Sophia Lee in The Recess (1783); it reached something like canonical status with the medieval romances of Walter Scott. 
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf4 The second, the Gothic tale of supernatural terror, was slower to erupt. The Otranto seed had time to travel to Germany and bear fruit there in the R\'e4uber- und Ritter-romane before being regrafted on to its native English soil. It was not until the last decade of the eighteenth century that the Gothic became a major force in English fiction, so much so that tales set in Italian castles and Spanish monasteries began to crowd out those set in London houses and Hampshire mansions. Ann Radcliffe\'92s The Mysteries of Udolpho (1794) and Matthew Lewis\'92s The Monk (1796) spawned numberless imitators in a craze whose original impetus carried it into the next century. A very few were works of talent and genius, among which were Radcliffe\'92s The Italian (1797), Mary Shelley\'92s Frankenstein (1818), and Charles Robert Maturin\'92s Melmoth the Wanderer (1820). By then, the original impulse of the Gothic romance had played itself out, although the tale of terror was to survive as an element within and as an influence on mainstream realist fiction through the Victorian era and indeed beyond, and as a minor component of the house of fiction in both high and popular art up to the present. 
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl200\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs18\fsmilli9333 \cf5 \up5 (p. 473) 
\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf4 \up0 Such is the story of the Gothic novel, and a narrative such as this one has been retold numerous times in the critical studies of the genre that began to appear in the 1920s, by Birkhead, Railo, Tompkins, Summers, and Varma.
\fs21\fsmilli10667 \up10 1 
\fs29\fsmilli14667 \up0 But to make a necessary distinction, it is a story\'97or rather a chronicle, in Hayden White\'92s terms\'97and not a history. It represents the important events and major happenings in order of occurrence, but makes no claim to understand why these events occurred when they did and why others did not occur in their place, 
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl560\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs48 \cf4 Attitudes towards History 
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \
The Gothic novel thus begins with The Castle of Otranto set in medieval history, a history seen as nightmare landscape where the probabilistic strictures of the present day are absent and where anything can happen, but\'97partly as a result of helping to stimulate that interest in history\'97the Gothic of the 1790s finds the primitive past populated by genuine cultures and customs of its own. The genre is thus pushed out into a never-never land of vague otherness, elsewhere and elsewhen, where the drama of suffering can occur on its own terms.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl560\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs48 \cf4 Attitudes towards Suffering \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf4 If the Gothic is the historical novel minus the details of the history, it might equally be thought to be a later, and more extreme, version of the sentimental novel. 
\fs24 \

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \'91the sensible man feels that he is an advanced type of being, of finer clay than the rest of the world, and though he pays for his superiority by weakness and anguish, he does not find the price too high, but regards with gentle scorn the low pleasures of the unthinking world\'92.
\fs21\fsmilli10667 \cf4 \up10 7 
\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf4 \up0 This is a basic cultural shift and not merely a literary fashion, although literature was a significant part of the cultural pattern 
\fs24 \
In Virtue in Distress, R. F. Brissenden suggests that the ultimate collapse of the cult of sensibility came out of the growing sense that widespread misery was a function of the proper working of the economic system \'85.. p.7: If one accepted this vision, the classic tableau of the sentimental novel became unviewable: What moral credit, what gentlemanly self-fashioning, could lie in assisting the very poverty that had made one rich? -- Highlighted Apr 22, 2017\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl560\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs48 \cf4 \'91New Torture or Nondescript Calamity\'92: The Psychological Power of the Gothic \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf4 The insertion of the villain in effect created the Gothic novel of Radcliffe in place of the sentimental novel of Mackenzie. Generically the forms are related but distinct. As David Denby put it in his study of French sentimentalism: \'91The melodramatic and the Gothic are certainly inscribed as latent possibilities in sentimentalism: in contradistinction to sentimentalism they require, perhaps, an insistence on the threat to virtue posed by a strongly personified villain, or principle of villainy, and a heightening of the obfuscation of virtue by various narrative devices, namely peripety and deceit.\'92
\fs21\fsmilli10667 \cf4 \up10 13 
\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf4 \up0 The result was melodramatic narrative, crude but effective, as we learn from typical addicts of the Gothic like 
\fs18\fsmilli9333 \cf5 \up5 (p. 479) 
\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf4 \up0 Catherine Morland. 
\fs24 \

\fs29\fsmilli14667 Gothic novels took two distinct forms depending on whether, structurally speaking, the protagonist is an exemplary woman (or man) or a morally reprehensible villain. 
\b The \'91female Gothic\'92 is a serious action\'97like Pamela\'97a melodrama arousing sympathy and suspense through the unwarranted persecution of an innocent. The \'91male Gothic\'92 is a punitive tragedy\'97like Richard III or Macbeth\'97in which we are made both to desire and to expect the condign punishment of the central figure.
\b0  The first subgenre includes The Mysteries of Udolpho and The Italian, and countless imitators. The second includes the main plot of The Monk, sections of Melmoth the Wanderer, and Confessions of a Justified Sinner. These may exist in relatively pure form, but some Gothic novels, including The Castle of Otranto, have incorporated both plots into a mixed form whose focus shifts in different parts of the narrative. \
The most successful Gothic villains, the Montonis and Schedonis, are dark fathers, images of the demon lover or the destroying angel. Within the plot structure of the romance, these figures are frequently the heroine\'92s uncle\'97a displacement from literal fatherhood that underlines the incestuous basis of the fear and love they exact while making more probable the heroine\'92s terrors of violation or murder. 
\fs24 \

\fs29\fsmilli14667 In Gothic romances like The Monk and Melmoth the Wanderer, written by and largely for men, the Oedipal agon often takes the appropriately opposite form, with the male victim in thrall to a maternal woman. 
\fs24 \

\fs29\fsmilli14667 There are other significant psychological sources of narrative power in the Gothic. One stems from the perplexity and subsequent revelation of secrets and mysteries\'97a 
\fs18\fsmilli9333 \cf5 \up5 (p. 480) 
\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf4 \up0 sort of rudimentary version of the pleasure we seek and find today in the detective story, which stems from the so-called phallic phase of the pre-Oedipal period. Another rather perverse pleasure has to do with the motif of imprisonment that runs through most of the important Gothic texts. The motif of confinement in the pleasurable anticipation of release, the intolerable pressures of being held in, and the incomparable pleasure of being let go, seems to be a defended form of anal eroticism. 
\fs24 \

\fs29\fsmilli14667 Probably the least well-understood and most embarrassing source of power in the Gothic romance is the stimulation it gives to the sadomasochistic desires of the implied reader. \

\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl560\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs48 \cf4 The Role of the Gothic Reader: The Shift to Aisthesis \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf4 More generally, the Gothic novel sits astride a major shift in the response of the English reader to literature, a shift, in the terminology of reception theorist Hans Robert Jauss, from catharsis to aisthesis, or in basic English, a shift from reading for information, and for the sake of entry into a verisimilar world otherwise inaccessible to the reader, towards reading as an escape from the world one inhabits into an inner site of fantasy 
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl560\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \
Page 12\
Novel-reading in the late eighteenth century was gendered female, and those attacking it shifted their focus during the vogue of the Gothic. In the 1760s and 1770s it was implied that indiscriminate reading was likely to erode women\'92s moral principles by providing poor examples of conduct, but in the period after 1795 the anti-fiction editorial was more likely to attack reading as sapping strength of mind, wasting precious time, and calling the reader into a world whose attractions would lead her to neglect the duties and pleasures of her sublunary existence.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf4 An empathic mindset tightly focused upon a heroine\'92s fears was nothing new: it had been demanded of readers by Pamela and by the sentimental novel, out of which the female Gothic developed. And yet if differences in quantity eventually make for differences in quality, the Gothic novel may have had such an impact on a major segment of the British reading public. That there was something like an addiction among the Gothic readers is suggested, not only by cautionary letters to women\'92s magazines but by 
\fs18\fsmilli9333 \cf5 \up5 (p. 485) 
\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf4 \up0 the receipts from circulating libraries, which show one celebrated bluestocking going through fifty-five volumes of romance in the space of a month. 
\fs24 \

\fs29\fsmilli14667 To conclude, there were in the 1790s two very different implied readers: the first, whom clergymen and journalists of the age personified as older and male, read primarily for factual information, for the reinforcement of ethical values, and for the pleasure of recognizing the persons and things of his world; the second was personified as younger and female, receptive rather than critical, and eager to indulge in the pleasures of the imagination. And the Gothic vogue was partly self-reinforcing, in that its popularity began to draw in new classes of reader who had not formerly been a significant part of the market for literature. One major result was to pave the way for the reception of Romanticism in poetry as well as fiction, with the result that English bards\'97Wordsworth, Byron, and Scott, at least\'97despite a bit of rough handling from Scottish reviewers, were able to stir without conspicuous resistance a public that already looked to literature for the play of fantasy, dream, and desire. The second result was in the Gothic itself, which after 1810 tended to abandon the historical themes of Radcliffe for the more explicitly fantastic imaginative worlds of Mary Shelley and Charles Robert Maturin. By then the Gothic wave itself had already begun to recede, leaving in its ebb two masterpieces, Frankenstein (1818) and Melmoth the Wanderer (1820). While the Gothic was to rise again, first with the Bront\'ebs, and later, at the end of the nineteenth century, with the supernatural tales of Stevenson, James, Wilde, and Stoker, the romance of Radcliffe was at an end, destroyed, ironically, by that arch-romantic poet, Walter Scott. 
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl560\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs48 \cf4 Scott and the End of the Gothic 
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf4 The popularity of Scott and historical romances like his was immense, because in effect 
\b Scott had, by his use of realistic detail, licensed male readers to enjoy the romance
\b0 , which otherwise they had despised\'97or pretended to despise\'97as feminine aesthetic experience. But even as males were joining enthusiastically the ranks of the readers of romance, romance itself had been forced to change, to leave the realms of fantasy for the concrete and the historical. Publishers would reject the outworn Gothic novel, with its principally female readership, for the historical romance, whose mixed appeal was broader and therefore more profitable. But in generating a new and even larger audience for romance, Scott had given the Gothic novel of the Radcliffe era its deathblow. 
\fs24 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl560\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl560\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \
}