{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs30 \cf0 Although I will use a number of graphs to make my argument, the key term for my methodological approach is not \'93data visualization,\'94 but \'93modelling.\'94 Johanna Drucker has given compelling warnings about the dangers of treating constructed information as empirically objective \'93data\'94 which may then be passively \'93{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://4E097C37-477A-4BB2-96E1-6A2D7D9573F4"}}{\fldrslt visualized\'94.}} Willard McCarty\'92s discussion of models as both \'93pragmatic\'94 and \'93fictive\'94 is more accurate to the scholarly process of gathering, classifying, correlating, and interpreting {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://04FA076E-C53F-4C13-9CA1-CF064426B73D"}}{\fldrslt information.}} Whether a model is a reading or a bar chart, the worth of that model must be judged by its \'93{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://94D99FCF-D09F-4397-9BBC-789D00A1D9BA"}}{\fldrslt fruitfulness\'94}}, a term for which Stephen Ramsay provides a useful definition:  \'93the robustness of the discussion that a particular procedure {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://3F471214-5FB7-4CCD-8651-1EDFA6B3A603"}}{\fldrslt annunciates\'94}}. In other words, whether or not the model has revealed what we expected to see, it has revealed something with which we must now engage. Exact correspondence is thus less of a \'93fundamental {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://2FB3B140-9B9F-4968-A2DC-D5577DA81786"}}{\fldrslt principle\'94}}, and more of an imagined destination which spurs valuable journeys. This flexibility allows us to cope with the fact that as a model is constructed, it becomes sensitive to some areas of difference while eliding others. No model needs to be accurate in all points, so long as it is sensitive to the desired area of differences. It is also worth noting that not all models are computational, as is evidenced by the meticulous historical research of Leah Price, whose monograph The Anthology and the Rise of the Novel argues that any edited text \'97 \'91elaborate\'92 or not \'97 produces, not a flawed or distorted copy of the original, but a new {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://B4CDAE53-E115-4531-B8E0-6EC41947631A"}}{\fldrslt text.}} As Price observes, when scholars examine texts \'97 when we take notes on them, extract quotes for close reading, summarize of categorize scenes, chapters of books \'97 our act of reading is also one of editing. McCarty allows us to recognize that this mental editing is not a sign of scholarly weakness, but a model, made necessary by the limits of human memory.}