{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 # Hershinow 2014 "When Experience Matters: Tom Jones and \'93Virtue Rewarded\'94"\
#tom-jones #sophia-western #bibliography\
**Organization:** [[202001131736 Structure of Hershinow 2014]]\
\
## Argument\
\
Scholars have often criticized Fielding's [[202001160012 inconsistent characters in Tom Jones]]. Hershinow argues that Fielding is actually demonstrating a kind of "inconsistent" character that real gentlemen have access to: the ability designate their rakish youths as "irrelevant to identity" (365). When Tom is revealed to be a gentleman by birth, all the previous events of the novel are narratively relegated to the category of "meaningless youthful indiscretions." The novel, therefore, is not a *Bildung* of gradual development through experience, but "a multiplicity of Toms" (370) from which one will be declared "true" and the rest will be rendered illusory. When Sophia accepts Tom as her husband, she ratifies him as a "reformed rake" who has access to this explanation of his past misconduct.\
\
## Other thoughts\
This idea that a gentleman's "youthful indiscretions" have no bearing on his adult self contradicts the predominant Lockean idea that a self is *created* by one's experiences.\
\
Hershinow suggests that [[202001160029 Sophia Western]]'s character has interesting inconsistencies -- see [[202001160036 Sophia - inconsistent character?]]\
\
Hershinow argues that Tom Jones shouldn't be compared to Clarissa, but should be seen as a rewriting of Pamela. (372-4)\
\
## Supports\
\
When Sophia agrees to see Tom as a "reformed rake" (and to marry him), she confirms that he now belongs in this class of people whose pasts do not predict their future actions. This moment "most vividly indicates Fielding\'92s interest in the production of inexperience." (Hershinow369) "Sophia\'92s choice of Tom endorses society\'92s blanket pardon of the youthful indiscretions of gentlemen" (Hershinow 369)\
\
The play adaptation *Sophia* illustratively smooths out the character inconsistencies by simply removing the events that don't fit with the "gentleman Tom" that the novel ends with. This essentially tells the story from Sophia's *final* point of view.\
\
## Quotes\
\
"Sophia\'92s acceptance, then, makes clear that the novel does not in fact operate on the model of _Bildung_, in which a character is gradually produced by experience. Instead, we might think of the // \
narrative as producing a multiplicity of Toms that are superimposed upon one another, out of which common, defining features must be discerned. Sophia\'92s task at the novel\'92s conclusion, in other words, is to bring Tom\'92s essential character into focus. In doing so, she sifts through and discards those qualities contingent upon his experiences, and her acceptance of him erases those contingencies. The novel\'92s picaresque plot does not merely get cleared up, exposed as a simple misunder- standing; it is instead revealed as having been a kind of illusion, an alternative plot that is not permitted to come to fruition. Fielding thus stresses a theory of character that does not resolve plot into a series of occasions for characters to act in such a way as to prove their character but that is instead one in which plot is, however \'91\'91perfect,\'92\'92 in the end subordinated to and dependent on fundamental character identity." (Hershinow 369-370)\
\
"That Sophia consents to see Tom as a reformed rake is central to our understanding of Fielding\'92s novel, just as the problem of the reformed rake is fundamental to the novel at mid-century. Richardson highlights, even aggravates, this problem in _Pamela_ and then claims to correct it in _Clarissa_. ... Richardson\'92s implicit lesson is that people cannot change, that experiences are so fundamental to identity that they cannot be ignored or even completely forgiven. Sophia\'92s acceptance of Tom reveals a naive faith in the con- stancy of a virtue that can be decoupled from experience. In having Sophia accept Tom, Fielding endorses a model from Richardson that Richardson himself found dangerous. The ending of _Tom Jones_ gets to the heart of eighteenth-century strug- gles with novelistic characters\'97collections of marks, yes, but marks that can, and sometimes _must_, be wiped clean, leaving the slates of character identity gleaming as if new."}