{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red252\green111\blue207;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c100000\c54098\c84731;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 I began by asking whether [I could actually tell men and women\'92s books apart]. [This approach asks about men\'92s and women\'92s gothics, rather than male and female gothics. It does not assume that either actually exists.] Based on my findings, I suggest that our attention to gender has been exactly the opposite of what is supported by the variety of texts produced under the Gothic umbrella. Although there are many Gothic features which are strongly predictive of male authorship, I find nothing that is the exclusive province of women. [I contradict the claim that \'93it is rare for male authors to write in the \'93female\'94 style (Miles, 2000)\'94 (Ledoux 3)]\cf2  [I was deciding between two theories: Women have special license to express certain politics / sympathies? Men have special license to write gross books? I set aside the first matter (I can\'92t detect anything notably feminine), but find strong support for the second. Men have special license to be weird and gross.]\cf0  [Make clear that it\'92s not biologically essential, it\'92s social: if a woman brought this manuscript to a printer, it would not get published] [In the field of Gothic studies, this work suggests that we can fold the \'93female Gothic\'94 into the unmarked category of \'93the Gothic mainstream,\'94 and begin an exploration of a \'93men\'92s Gothic.\'94] [Because only Tracy\'92s bibliography provided a reliable foundation for this research, my work also suggests [that we need increased skepticism of the biases built into the very data-collection of all research]] [Connect to broader context: must always remember that \'93data\'94 is in fact \'93capta,\'94 even/especially \'93data\'94 which does not present itself as such. Especially crucial for feminist/anti-oppressive scholars]}