{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red7\green61\blue90;\red255\green255\blue255;\red210\green94\blue39;
\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c30588\c42745;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c86275\c45098\c20000;
\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa214\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 <$Scr_H::1>
\f1\b\fs32 Program of Work\'97maximum four pages\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa266\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://webapps.nserc.ca/SSHRC/Instructions-Help/postdocinstr_e.htm#AttachDocument"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf4 \cb3 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 <!$Scr_H::1>
\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 Attach a PDF}}
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf5 \cb3 \strokec5 \'a0copy of your program of work. Write your proposal in clear, plain language. Avoid discipline-specific jargon, acronyms and highly technical terms when writing your program of work. Your application will be reviewed by members of a multidisciplinary selection committee, not all of whom will be familiar with your area of research.\
Ensure that your program of work includes the following:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl300\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf5 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 State the title and subject of your doctoral thesis, and discuss the relationship of your doctoral thesis to your proposed research. If the two areas of research are closely related, explain how your proposed research will develop or expand on your thesis. If the areas of research are not related, describe your proposed area of research.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 Outline your plans for achieving your research objectives. Clearly describe your theoretical approach, your methodology and how your proposed research will contribute to the advancement of knowledge.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 Justify your choice of the proposed university or research institution based on the\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.sshrc-crsh.gc.ca/funding-financement/programs-programmes/fellowships/postdoctoral-postdoctorale-eng.aspx#a1"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 purpose of the fellowship and its releated activities}}. See the\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://webapps.nserc.ca/SSHRC/Instructions-Help/postdocinstr_e.htm#ProgramTenure"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 Tenure Location}}\'a0section of the application form for additional information.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 If applicable, indicate any other organizations with which you will be affiliated, and provide a justification for this choice. You must clearly identify your primary place of affiliation and outline how your work at the secondary location(s) of tenure will intersect with and enhance your research at the primary location of tenure.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 If your proposed research overlaps with areas funded by other granting agencies, justify your submission of this proposal to SSHRC (rather than to NSERC or CIHR), based on the\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.sshrc-crsh.gc.ca/funding-financement/apply-demande/background-renseignements/selecting_agency-choisir_organisme_subventionnaire-eng.aspx#af2"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 General Guidelines for the Eligibility of Subject Matter at SSHRC}}. If in doubt about the eligibility of your proposed research, consult SSHRC staff by emailing\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:fellowships@sshrc-crsh.gc.ca"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 fellowships@sshrc-crsh.gc.ca}}\'a0prior to the submission of your application.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 If your proposal involves Indigenous research, please refer to the section\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://webapps.nserc.ca/SSHRC/Instructions-Help/postdocinstr_e.htm#IndigenousResearch"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 Does your proposal involve Indigenous research, as defined by SSHRC?}}\'a0before preparing your program of work.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 If your project uses a\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.sshrc-crsh.gc.ca/funding-financement/programs-programmes/definitions-eng.aspx#a22"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 research-creation}}\'a0approach, indicate clearly the research component of your proposed work. Outline the objectives of your research and the context, methodology, and contribution to the advancement of knowledge.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 Footnotes and endnotes should not be used in the program of work. Items should be cited in the bibliography.\cb1 \
}