{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red38\green38\blue38;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c14902\c14902\c14902;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\fi700\sl480\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Whereas Moretti\'92s identification of a \'91region of death\'92 in 
\i Hamlet
\i0  has thus been fruitful both for readings of 
\i Hamlet
\i0  and for 
\i Venice Preserv\'92d
\i0 , his next observation is of the kind that sometimes leads to scornful dismissals of literary modelling: after careful mathematical analysis, he says, the protagonist of 
\i Hamlet
\i0 , it turns out, is Hamlet (5). However, few plays are as intent in their psychological identification with a character as 
\i Hamlet
\i0 , and often \'97 as with 
\i Venice Preserv\'92d
\i0  \'97  \'93who is the protagonist?\'94 is a complex question. It\'92s helpful, therefore, that Moretti has provided a proof that the measure he uses does produce the right answer. The measure itself comes from a large-scale study of the Marvel comics universe, which identified the centre of the social network as \'93the character that minimized the sum of the distances to all other vertices\'94 (Alberich 9). Moretti translates \'93centre\'94 to \'93protagonist.\'94 In other words, this formula identifies the character through whom most connections across the network flow, the crux of the social interchange. This way of thinking, in keeping with Moretti\'92s priorities, treats the protagonist as a positi
\f1 on created by the text itself, which is important \'93\cf2 [n]ot for what is \'91in\'92 it; not for its essence, but for its function\'94 (Moretti 5)\cf0 . This is a different metric than that by which some critics have identified Belvidera, and others Jaffeir, as the protagonist of 
\i Venice Preserv\'92d
\i0 : Belvidera and Jaffeir linger in our memories due to the
\f0  impact of their presence and the extent to which the audience takes up their emotions as its own. Nonetheless, it is worth asking, if we see the protagonist in functional terms, as the person who brings the play\'92s characters together, who fills that role?}