{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 Because this game asks unusual things of its readers, it is important to prepare students for the play experience. Preparation, in this case, involves content notes, gameplay troubleshooting, [reassuring students about what \'93counts\'94 as completing their assigned reading].\
\
Several students reported being highly confused by the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://9249A102-035A-41D3-8C41-45BD04476F32"}}{\fldrslt game.}}\
\
Teaching games, especially games relying on unconventional mechanics, means teaching texts that many students will struggle to \'93operate.\'94 In general, it is helpful to reassure students that getting \'93stuck\'94 is not a sign of their own failure, but rather an informative moment of friction which can be examined for insight into the medium or text which is presenting them with difficulty. Encourage students to reflect on their \'93stuckness\'94: What did they expect to be able to do? Is there a reason the game foreclosed that option? Was this a \'93puzzle,\'94 or a \'93glitch\'94? How did being stuck shape their interpretation of the text at that moment? If they did not proceed past a certain point -- how might they analyze the text as it existed for them, lacking the material they did not access? \
However, students also appreciate a helping hand in getting unstuck. I recommend providing a resource which students can choose to consult if they are confused. With WTWLA, students are particularly prone to getting stuck at the moment when the protagonist has exhausted all options for action besides going to sleep. The character needs to sleep several times in a row in order to cause enough in-game time to pass that new options for action are available.\
\
Students often respond to unconventional texts with anxiety about what \'93counts\'94 as reading them. Make your expectations clear before they need to read. WTWLA has a highly linear narrative with minimal branching, so I instruct students to complete the game {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://90E50225-131A-4B6A-8334-08E355ED34AB"}}{\fldrslt once.}} I tell students that the game is intended to be played in private, in a single focused sitting, and if they choose to play it differently they should reflect on how their choices impact their experience and interpretation. I find it especially important to tell students in advance that the game includes instructions to draw onto their bodies, which it intends very literally. I encourage them to try drawing the sigils, to play along with the game, though the majority of students did {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://88A994EF-9E32-4A89-973C-04A2A9D68F6E"}}{\fldrslt not.}} Drawing the sigil on a piece of paper can be a comfortable middle ground for students who don\'92t wish to draw on their skin.}