{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf760
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red38\green38\blue38;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c14902\c14902\c14902;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sa120\pardirnatural

\f0\fs22 \cf2 \'93how this curious novel fulfils at least some of the characteristics of a feminist utopian novel, in that it provides critiques of women\'92s status, offers alternative ways of being female, recommends reforms benefiting women, places women centrally in the plot and shows either sex in an atypical way\'94\
\'93The Story of an African Farm consists of two parts, which may be regarded as a structural reflection of Schreiner\'92s preoccupation with contrasts \'96 notably those between black and white, young and old, and women and men, but also those between complementary and incompatible personalities, between momentary existence and transcendental eternity, between dream and reality.\'94 (Tigges 192)\
\'93A specifically feminist theme of the novel becomes already quite prominent in Part One: the extremely early age at which female colonials become eligible and sought-after as marriage partners.\'94\
\'93Part Two mainly relates the further development of the three young people.\'94\
\'93Em, however, breaks off her engagement with Gregory, who readily transfers his attentions to the much more attractive and mystifying Lyndall.\'94\
\'93Thus retold, there is little in The Story of an African Farm that suggests a utopia. Rather than with a more or less schematized and generalized blueprint of an ideal but nonexistent society, we are dealing here with an oddly constructed but realistic narrative\'94\
\'93In my view, the way in which this novel was written is more important than the details of its relatively meagre and despondent plot.\'94\
\'93Cherry Clayton perceptively argues how in The Story of an African Farm \'93true and false story-telling interweave\'94.\'94\
\'93all of these feminist-utopian themes are personalized rather than generalized\'94\
\'93Starkly delineated utopian novels in the original sense of that genre had their heyday in the idealistic late nineteenth century. The bleaker 1930s and \'9240s convinced writers in the humanist tradition of the dangers of a blueprint society, and produced some memorable dystopian novels. The Story of an African Farm belongs to neither of these categories in the strict sense, and that in fact is its strength\'94\
\'93it should testify to the superiority of the selfconscious quest over the ill-considered goal, of the pragmatic struggle over the potential victory, of the hopeful mirage over the hopeless contours of harsh reality\'94\
}